##LINK: https://www.theverge.com/2015/6/18/8805637/sprint-stops-throttling-fcc-net-neutrality
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Sprint quits throttling after net neutrality rules come into effect - The Verge
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
 Filed under: 
 
 
 
 Policy 
 
 
 
 
 US & World 
 
 
 
 
 Tech 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sprint quits throttling after net neutrality rules come into effect 
 
 
 
 
    New,
   
 
 
        20
       
 comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Colin Lecher @colinlecher 
 
 
 
          Jun 18, 2015, 12:56pm EDT
         
 
 
          Source  The Wall Street Journal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options for: 
 Sprint quits throttling after net neutrality rules come into effect 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Linkedin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reddit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pocket 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flipboard 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 On Friday, the FCC's new net neutrality rules  came into effect , and already we're seeing the repercussions: Sprint has halted its practice of throttling wireless data speeds for some customers,  The Wall Street Journal  reports . 
 
 
 The new rules cover mobile for the first time 
 Sprint  announced last year  that it would begin slowing speeds for its heaviest data users, saying those customers "consume a disproportionate share of network resources and cause a negative user experience for the rest." The change intermittently affected speeds for the top 5 percent of data users, Sprint said. 
 Although in the past the FCC has stepped in to stop internet providers from slowing speeds, the Commission's new rules  also cover mobile  for the first time. Sprint told the  Journal  that, although it stopped the practice, the company believes the throttling was allowed under the rules. 
 Meanwhile, the FCC is still facing down industry lawsuits over the rules. A judge declined a request to stop the rules from coming into effect, but oral arguments are expected to begin around the end of the year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Next Up In
    
         Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Sign up for the
        
          newsletter
        
       
      Verge Deals
     
 Subscribe to get the best Verge-approved tech deals of the week. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thanks for signing up! 
 Check your inbox for a welcome email. 
 
 
 
 
 Email  (required) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        By signing up, you agree to our  Privacy Notice  and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
        
       
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Loading comments... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
