##LINK: https://www.forbes.com/sites/larrydownes/2012/04/12/att-verizon-and-sprint-net-neutrality-proposals-simply-awful/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: AT&amp;T, Verizon, and Sprint Net Neutrality Proposals:  Simply Awful
##METHOD: article 1


More From Forbes May 6, 2021, 06:30am EDT Get Vaccinated? How Trust In Institutions Determines COVID Vaccination Rates In The EU Feb 9, 2021, 08:23am EST Clubhouse’s Future Depends On Data - How To Build A TikTok Like Algorithm Feb 4, 2021, 08:35am EST President Biden Is Man, Woman And 40 Years Old - Why We Need Algorithmic Transparency Jan 26, 2021, 10:42am EST WhatsApp: We Should Discuss What Our Data Is Used For, Not Who Has It Oct 29, 2020, 02:19pm EDT Three Things You’ll Need Before Starting A New Business Oct 29, 2020, 02:19pm EDT How Do Employee Needs Vary From Generation To Generation? Oct 27, 2020, 02:55pm EDT Where Is There Still Room For Growth When It Comes To Content Creation? Oct 27, 2020, 02:55pm EDT Here Is Some Good Advice For Leaders Of Remote Teams Edit Story Apr 12, 2012, 06:00am EDT | AT&amp;T, Verizon, and Sprint Net Neutrality Proposals:  Simply Awful Larry Downes Former Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Cybersecurity Best-selling author on technology, strategy and policy This article is more than 9 years old. Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Linkedin 
 
 Update 4/27/2012 - AT&T shareholders  voted overwhelmingly to reject  the "wireless net neutrality" proposal yesterday.  Over 94% rejected the poorly-drafted proposal. 
 
 Frustrated by failed or botched efforts to impose “net neutrality” rules in Congress, at the  FCC , and in the courts, self-styled consumer advocates are now turning their attention to regulation by corporate governance.   Following an SEC ruling in February , proxies for  AT&T , Verizon and Sprint must now carry an awkwardly-worded shareholder proposal that, if passed, would require each carrier to “operate its wireless broadband network consistent with net neutrality principles.” 
 This is, of course, a terrible idea, and no one can seriously expect it to generate more than a little publicity (mission accomplished) and the opportunity to recycle the over-the-top rhetoric of those who believe that the lack of enforceable net neutrality principles threatens the very existence of the Internet on a daily basis.  All three companies are recommending “no” votes to their respective shareholders. 
 
 Net neutrality, for those new to this particular soap opera, is an idea proposed not by Internet designers or engineers but by law professors.  It advocates for the squishy idea that network operators should be required to “guarantee that similar content gets treated similarly,”  as  Columbia ’s Tim Wu recently put it.  (Wu is credited with having coined the term years ago.) 
 
 More concrete explanations—that is, explanations that might be implemented in network design--emphasize treating individual data packets “fairly” and “equally” as they fly around the network of computers known as the Internet….or something. 
 That’s part of the problem—a big part.  No two people agree on how providers of consumer broadband connections would have to change their existing or constrain future network management practices to comply with the “principles” of net neutrality.  Indeed, throughout 2010, as the FCC devoted nearly all of its resources to trying to solve the non-existent crisis through a rulemaking, those arguing most loudly for a pure net neutrality regime never once proposed language that they would find acceptable. 
 
 They preferred instead to condemn every effort by the agency, by the carriers, by Congress, and even by  Google —their supposed ally—to reach agreement.  Any hint of compromise or otherwise rational debate was seized upon to  brand anyone and everyone as a sell-out .  Even FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski was lambasted, and he was the one leading the charge.  The final rules adopted by the agency were sniffed at as “fake” net neutrality, “not neutrality,” and similar smugness. 
 But wait, you might be thinking to yourself.  Didn’t this fight end with the passage of those FCC rules in late 2010?   And didn’t the Rebel Alliance—I mean the net neutrality advocates--win?  Didn’t the FCC, after threatening to redefine broadband Internet as a telephone service when it became clear Congress wasn’t going to give authority over broadband Internet, and losing in court on its early attempts to enforce net neutrality—didn’t the FCC enact net neutrality regulations at the end of 2010 anyway? 
 Well, yes and no.  First, to be technical, the FCC has never used the meaningless and perfectly elastic phrase “net neutrality,” preferring instead the equally unhelpful but less abused phrase “open Internet.”  Second, the rules that were passed in 2010 didn’t satisfy the most vociferous neutrality supporters who, in fact, condemned them, Chairman Genachowski, and most of their corporate allies before the ink had even dried.  (Hey, that’s how they roll inside the beltway.) 
 And finally, no sensible bookie would give odds that the FCC’s 2010 rules will stand up to on-going court challenges in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit—the same court that threw out the FCC’s previous effort to enforce “open Internet” principles.  Under our sometimes-persnickety system of Constitutional government, it turns out, federal agencies can’t pass new regulations without authorization from Congress.  And despite many proposed bills that would give the FCC authority over broadband Internet access provisioning, none of them has ever made it out of committee. 
 So advocacy groups have now turned to the SEC.  The hope is that shareholders will be lulled into believing that something that sounds as nice as “network neutrality” can’t be bad for their interests.  If the proposals pass, they will force the largest mobile broadband Internet providers to lash themselves to the mast of “network neutrality principles” before sailing past the siren call of network management techniques and specialized services that might otherwise dash them—and the Internet—against the rocks of a non-neutral network. 
 That, at least, is the heroic view promoted by supporters of the proposals. 
 Everything is a Net Neutrality Violation 
 The reality is something different.  These proposals, in some sense, are even worse than the all the previous efforts to force network operators to pre-commit to "network neutrality principles."  For one thing, they would compel a network design strategy that, as we’ll see in a moment, not only doesn’t make business sense but has never been part of the Internet’s (successful) technical architecture. 
 Most disturbing, the sponsors of these proposals scrupulously ignore the difficult problem of defining what “net neutrality principles” actually are—let alone what it would mean to operate mobile broadband services in a manner “consistent” with them—by offering no definition whatsoever.  It’s an open-ended mandate. 
 In corporate law, open-ended mandates are a perennial gift for the plaintiff’s bar.  Should these proposals pass, expect outraged shareholder derivative lawsuits to be filed each and every time the carriers announce a new service, change the terms of customer agreements, or offer a new device, operating system, or app. 
 Does that sound alarmist?  It’s not.  For that is exactly what has happened before and since the passage of the FCC’s open Internet rules, despite the fact that, unlike the shareholder proposals, the FCC at least made an effort to offer some degree of precision as to what practices are and are not banned.  (Emphasis on “some.”) 
 Net neutrality advocates see violations everywhere.  They have a hammer and, as the saying goes, everything looks like a nail.  Julian Sanchez of the Cato Institute has kept a kind of running diary of all the surprising things that the most vocal net neutrality supporters have claimed to be violations of both the “principles” and the actual rules.  (See, for example, “ More Net Neutrality Violations that Aren’t .”) 
 Even Sanchez can’t keep track of all the absurd claims of perceived violations, though.  Here are a few recent examples that caught my attention:  
 1.  During a 2010 dispute between Fox and Cablevision  over retransmission rights (the bane of the current regulated cable industry), Fox blocked  Cablevision  Internet customers from accessing programming on Fox websites.  Profligate net neutrality advocates at Public Knowledge condemned that tactic as “one of the grossest violations of the open Internet committed by a U.S. company.”  This despite the fact that Fox isn’t a provider of Internet access but a  content  provider—the kind of company who is supposed to be protected by, not subject to, net neutrality rules. 
 On Public Knowledge’s bizarre view, any content available on the Internet must be available to everyone—wiping out at a stroke paywalls, registration, ad-supported websites, and subscription services.  All of these, it seems, are violations of “network neutrality principles.”  (The organization’s own “position” on net neutrality at the time sensibly limited application of the principles to “network operators.”  That was apparently a detail so minor it didn't require explanation.) 
   
 2.  Just this month,  Comcast found itself accused of violating net neutrality principles  with a new service that lets current cable TV and Internet customers use an Xbox as an alternative to a set-top box for accessing and viewing Xfinity on-demand programming.  But because some of that programming (movies and TV shows) is also offered by Internet-based services including Netflix, Hulu and YouTube, the net neutrality lobby cried foul.   Comcast’s failure to count the on-demand programming toward its excessive use policy for Internet traffic, they argue, constitutes “discrimination” against the Internet services. 
 Again, a violation of net neutrality principles, or worse.  “Reports that Comcast is offering a video product through the Xbox 360 without the data counting toward the customer's data cap,” wrote Public Knowledge, “raises questions not only of the justification for the caps but, more importantly, of the survival of an Open Internet.” 
 But of course the FCC’s rules explicitly leave out highly-regulated cable TV programming from the open Internet rules, for the seemingly sane reason that the cable TV programming never travels on the Internet—it’s not Internet content at all.  The congestion and expense that over-the-top video generates is mostly in the middle mile-- between Netflix’s servers and Comcast’s—a mile that the on-demand content, which is hosted at each local head-end, never travels. 
 That the programming is coming through the Xbox and not a set-top box is a red herring.  What’s really being argued here is that all cable programming competes with “similar” Internet content, and should be treated the same way in the name of “consistency.”  An interesting theory.  Remove the mountains of federal, state, and local regulation that dictate every move a cable operator makes, and we’ll see who’s really operating at a competitive disadvantage here. 
   
 3.  For a mobile broadband example, consider complaints threatened or already filed with the FCC that  accuse both Apple and Google app stores of violating the FCC’s existing open Internet rules for mobile broadband.  The Apple complaint charges that by curating apps for the iPhone, Apple is denying consumers the right to “download and utilize applications of their choosing,” a violation of the neutrality principle. 
 Google’s sin is banning an app that allowed Android phones to turn their broadband connection into a tether to be shared with other devices.  Google, the complaint argues, is likewise interfering with the unrestricted choice of consumers to use whatever software they choose, regardless of its impact on network performance. Network neutrality again. 
 Both complaints, unfortunately for their promoters, need to find their way around a few disagreeable provisions in the FCC’s rules that explicitly exempt mobile broadband from the discrimination rule, and which explicitly exempt app stores from the blocking rule.  The blocking rule, by the way, bans blocking only of  competing voice or video  applications.  (“The prohibition on blocking applications that compete with a broadband provider’s voice or video telephony services does not apply to a broadband provider’s operation of application stores or their functional equivalent.”)  No matter.  If it walks like a duck and talks like a duck, it’s a net neutrality violation.  And to neutrality true believers, everything is a duck. 
 The Romance of Network Neutrality…and the Engineering Reality 
 The closest the sphinxlike shareholder proposals come to saying what they actually mean by operating a mobile broadband network “consistent with network neutrality principles” comes in an “i.e.” at the very end of the resolution: “i.e., operate a neutral network with neutral routing along the company’s wireless infrastructure such that the company does not privilege, degrade, or prioritize any packet transmitted over its wireless infrastructure based on its source, ownership or destination.” 
 But that clarification won’t save today’s Internet or eliminate any frivolous lawsuits.  It doesn’t help that this explanation lurches in the general direction of a definition for “neutral” by using the word “neutral” two more times. 
 From an engineering standpoint (and mobile networks--or “infrastructure” as the proposals calls them--can only be operated with reference to engineering), “privilege” and "degrade" aren't even terms that apply to packet management. 
 Prioritizing packets is a phrase that actually means something, but not something the drafters of these proposals seem to understand.  To forbid network operators from prioritizing  any packet  based on its source, ownership (again, gibberish to a network engineer) or destination means not operating a mobile broadband network at all. 
 The reason is that mobile broadband networks, even more than fixed networks, can only function by carefully managing traffic.  The FCC, for example, in excluding mobile broadband from its “unreasonable discrimination” rule, listed several compelling reasons why mobile network operators must use aggressive network management techniques to keep their networks responsive. 
 These reasons are obvious to any mobile customer.  Data traffic on mobile broadband networks is growing at an explosive rate—in the thousands of percents per year since the introduction of the iPhone and Android devices.  Bandwidth, on the other hand, is highly limited by decades of  poor spectrum management practices of the FCC  and the  slow and often corrupt zoning approvals  necessary to build additional cell towers and add better antennae to existing towers.  In high-concentration areas, users already experience delays, drops, and other artifacts of these constraints. 
 Keeping these networks up and running, let alone responsive to unprecedented increases in demand, requires careful, active and expert network management practices that are evolving as quickly as the mobile ecosystem they serve.  Why, oh why would any rational consumer—let alone a rational  shareholder —want to forbid their carrier from keeping the network operating? 
 Oh yes, the sanctified network neutrality principle.  Well, let’s look at the real value of that principle a little more closely.  As I said at the outset, the neutrality principal began life not with engineers but as the idealized romance of legal academics and their fellow travelers.  It is grounded on the appealing but utterly unrealistic fantasy that the founding engineers of the Internet built freedom, fairness, and transparency into the design of their protocols, as if to set an example for Internet users about how they should then use the network, if not to live their lives. 
 Unfortunately, this is a fantasy that only someone willfully ignorant of the actual history, design and operation of Internet protocols could cling to, for better and for worse.  The Internet was never “open” or “neutral,” at least not the way the romantics believe it was or should be. 
 Don’t just take my word for it.   As I wrote recently  in the journal  CommLaw Conspectus , even the pro-neutrality majority of FCC Commissioners who voted for the 2010 rules cataloged over a dozen essential exceptions to the neutrality principle that have long been part of the Internet’s core architecture.  They made no effort to ban them, and in many cases praised them. 
 The exceptions include priority for voice and video packets, getting popular content into the pipe more quickly using content delivery networks, peering and caching arrangements among backbone providers, specialized or “managed services” such as virtual private networks that use the same infrastructure used by consumers, exemptions for television programming that uses the same infrastructure used by consumers for Internet access, and exemption from all the rules for packets that contain content that isn’t “lawful,” that is, which represents the transfer of content in violation of copyright, patent, or other laws. 
 These exceptions, exemptions and limits—along with the more limited restrictions for mobile broadband operators generally--are excused from the FCC’s rules despite, to use the FCC’s word, an appearance of being “inconsistent” with the neutrality principle. 
 Why?  In the course of its year-long rulemaking, the FCC (which had almost no prior experience regulating broadband Internet access because, recall, Congress had never authorized the agency to do so) learned the difference between the romance of the open Internet and the reality of the Internet that actually works.  The Commissioners now understand that without these and other network management techniques, there would be no Internet--open, neutral, or otherwise. 
 Without these essential exceptions, the FCC’s rules would have been done far more damage.  Indeed, they really would have been the end of the Internet as we know it, to borrow a favorite phrase of the neutrality romantics. 
 That was a partial vote for sanity.  But having compiled the list, the Commissioners should have realized that the open Internet they were trying to “preserve” never existed.  And while the exceptions saved current network management practices,the FCC's order left unclear the future of what will surely be similar innovations to come.  As long as the rules stand, network operators—fixed and mobile—will need to get permission from the FCC before implementing new techniques. 
 But at least under the FCC’s order there’s the possibility of continued refinement of network management tools and technologies.  Under the ridiculously vague, unduly restrictive, and technically ignorant proxy proposals now on the table, on the other hand, everything that keeps the Internet working, if not improving, goes away.  Each of the exceptions “degrades, privileges, or prioritizes” some packets over others.  Doing away with all of them—and foreclosing any to come—makes it impossible to operate a mobile broadband network. 
 And that’s a good thing for shareholders why, exactly? 
 Larry Downes Project Director, Georgetown Center for Business and Public Policy. My new book, "Big Bang Disruption," co-authored with Paul F. Nunes, is now a bestseller. My earlier…  Read More Project Director, Georgetown Center for Business and Public Policy. My new book, "Big Bang Disruption," co-authored with Paul F. Nunes, is now a bestseller. My earlier books include the New York Times bestseller, “Unleashing the Killer App" and "The Laws of Disruption."  Read Less Print Reprints & Permissions