##LINK: https://www.yahoo.com/news/weather/net-neutrality-racks-another-win-sprint-stops-throttling-123031167.html
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Net Neutrality Racks Up Another Win as Sprint Stops Throttling Subscribers
##METHOD: article 1


BGR News Net Neutrality Racks Up Another Win as Sprint Stops Throttling Subscribers Read full article Zach Epstein June 18, 2015, 8:30 AM Who knew when a former top cable industry lobbyist took the helm at the Federal Communications Commission that it would lead to this much positive change for consumers? The FCC’s much-lauded new net neutrality rules took effect this past Friday, and we’re already seeing the effects they’re having on the Internet. The new rules aim to prevent ISPs from implementing anti-consumer schemes like paid traffic prioritization, data blocking and bandwidth throttling, and there is already a major shift taking place in the industry. On Wednesday,  the FCC levied a massive $100 million fine against AT&T for throttling users’ unlimited wireless data . Now, news that  Sprint  has shelved its data-throttling policy marks yet another win for wireless customers in the United States. DON’T MISS:  TWC is About to be Sued for Violating Net Neutrality Rules and Holding Traffic for Ransom Late Wednesday night, Sprint confirmed  to  The Wall Street Journal  that it will no longer throttle users with unlimited data plans. Throttling is the practice of deliberately slowing users’ data speeds after they have used a certain amount of data in a single billing period. Of note, it appears as though  the huge fine AT&T was slapped with by the FCC  wasn’t the catalyst for the change. Sprint said that it stopped throttling users last Friday, which is when the new net neutrality rules took effect. Perhaps the most interesting part of this story is Sprint’s comment on the matter. “Sprint doesn’t expect users to notice any significant difference in their services now that we no longer engage in the process,” a Sprint spokesperson told the  WSJ . In other words, at least where Sprint is concerned, the company was seemingly throttling its customers for no good reason, since the impact throttling had was not “significant.” Sprint didn’t try to parade this move around as something it’s doing out of the kindness of its heart, of course. The company confirmed that the only reason it put an end to data throttling on its network was to be sure it isn’t violating the FCC’s new rules. Story continues Related stories Internet Health Test aims to tell you if your ISP is violating net neutrality ISPs have two choices: Live with net neutrality rules or live with real competition Verizon is reportedly working on a sneaky plan to undermine net neutrality using data caps More from BGR:   Revealed: The Smartphones that Deliver the Very Best Battery Life This article was  originally published on BGR.com