##LINK: https://www.vox.com/2015/1/16/11557850/on-second-thought-title-ii-wouldnt-be-so-bad-after-all-sprint-says
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality,open Internet
##TITLE: On Second Thought, Getting Regulated Like Old Phone Lines Wouldn't Be So Bad, Sprint Says - Vox
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
 On Second Thought, Getting Regulated Like Old Phone Lines Wouldn't Be So Bad, Sprint Says 
 
 The wireless carrier tossed its competitors under the bus by endorsing an upcoming FCC proposal on net neutrality. 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Amy Schatz 
 
 
 
          Jan 16, 2015,  9:26am EST
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options for: 
 On Second Thought, Getting Regulated Like Old Phone Lines Wouldn't Be So Bad, Sprint Says 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reddit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pocket 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flipboard 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PBS 
 
 
 
 
 This story is part of a group of stories called  
 
 
 
 
 
    Uncovering and explaining how our digital world is changing — and changing us.
   
 
 
 Sprint became unlikely besties with consumer groups and net neutrality advocates Friday when it told the FCC that adopting new net neutrality rules under a law written with old phone lines in mind wouldn’t be the end of the world. 
 “Sprint does not believe that a light-touch application of Title II, including appropriate forbearance, would harm the continued investment in, and deployment of, mobile broadband services,” Sprint Chief Technology Officer Stephen Bye wrote in a letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler. 
 Sprint’s competitors, including Verizon and AT&T, have  expressed contrary views  and have warned FCC officials that relying on Title II for the legal authority to act as an Internet-line traffic cop would discourage investment in networks. 
 In some ways, Sprint’s letter acknowledged the reality that the FCC is likely going to craft new net neutrality, or Open Internet, rules under Title II of the Communications Act no matter how much broadband providers complain. Wheeler recently  telegraphed  his intention to do that and has  White House support  for that decision. 
 Sprint’s move appears to be an effort to make the best of a bad situation and try to convince regulators to give wireless carriers more freedom in how they manage their networks under net neutrality rules. 
 “So long as the FCC continues to allow wireless carriers to manage our networks and differentiate our products, Sprint will continue to invest in data networks regardless of whether they are regulated by Title II, Section 706 or some other light-touch regime,” Bye wrote in the letter. 
 Net neutrality advocates quickly began forwarding Sprint’s letter and praising the wireless carrier on Twitter. An FCC spokeswoman did not have immediate comment on it. 
 “Thanks to Sprint for sprinting ahead on the Open Internet, acknowledging what we have long known: strong net neutrality is good for consumers, competition, innovation and free expression online,” said Michael Copps, a special adviser to Common Cause and a former Democratic FCC commissioner, in a statement. 
 Here is the full text of the letter from Bye to Wheeler: 
 View this document on Scribd 
 This article originally appeared on Recode.net. 
 
 
 Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? 
 
    Millions turn to Vox to understand what’s happening in the news. Our mission has never been more vital than it is in this moment: to empower through understanding. Financial contributions from our readers are a critical part of supporting our resource-intensive work and help us keep our journalism free for all.  Please consider making a contribution to Vox today from as little as $3 .
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Next Up on
    
         Recode 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          The Latest
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trump is nowhere to be found on the Twitter clone his former spokesperson launched 
 Jason Miller’s new Gettr app has some issues. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Florida’s social media free speech law has been blocked for likely violating free speech laws 
 The Florida law prevented certain platforms from banning political candidates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How big business exploits small business 
 Companies like Facebook and Uber say they’re supporting small businesses while squashing them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More in The Latest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Latest on Vox 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Play 
 
 
 
 
 How sperm got all the credit in the fertilization story 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Edward Vega 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It’s incredibly hard to get a rape conviction. Bill Cosby’s release makes it feel pointless. 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Constance Grady 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Robots were supposed to take our jobs. Instead, they’re making them worse. 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Emily Stewart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How to be a good ancestor 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Sigal Samuel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trump is nowhere to be found on the Twitter clone his former spokesperson launched 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Shirin Ghaffary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The fascinating, horrifying history behind Steven Soderbergh’s new heist movie 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Alissa Wilkinson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
