##LINK: https://www.sprint.com/en/legal/sprint-fwd-important-service-product-specific-terms.html
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Sprint Forward Important Service/Product Specific Terms
##METHOD: paragraphs

Cart
Call to Order
Sign In
If you don't have an account.
                    Sign up here


Check Order Status 


My Sprint App 


Express Pay 

My Account
Navigate to:
Thank you for choosing Sprint!
Sprint Forward® Plan and Service Information
Messaging: Message rates are charged when a message is sent or received, whether read or unread, viewed or unviewed, solicited or unsolicited. Premium and international messages may result in additional charges.
Interactive Directory Assistance: With certain plans, the following rates shall apply: $1.99/call.
Plan Add-Ons: Available with monthly plans and valid until either the pan allotment is reached or the month ends. Add-ons remain on an account until removed.
Accounts with Multiple Lines (aka “Family Plans”): The first phone activated will be the primary line. If the primary line is cancelled, another line on the account will be the primary line and responsible for payment, or the family account will be converted to individual accounts/lines.
Location Based Services (LBS): LBS requires account holder authorization for Sprint to share location and other information with third parties. The account holder must notify users that location can be identified while using LBS. Environment may limit LBS.
Fees: Additional fees may be charged for number changes, market transfers, equipment change requests and certain other transactions.
Account Funds, Payments and Cancellation: Funds can be added to accounts using an approved payment method. Charges are not refunded if cancelled or prorated if changes are made before the next payment due date. Unused services expire every month and do not carry forward. Max. $300/transaction and account balance cannot exceed $400. No funds transfer between accounts. Funds are withdrawn from accounts on monthly payment date and when incidental services are used (e.g., third-party content purchases). Insufficient funds will result in service suspension; accounts must become current within 120 days of suspension or account will be cancelled and funds and the phone number will be lost. Payment may be processed using other available funding sources, including registered credit/debit cards. Reactivation fees may apply to resume service after cancellation. Fees may be charged for real-time-replenishment (RTR) transactions or adding funds though customer service.
Advance Payment: Account must be active for Advance Payment. Funds will be applied automatically to the next monthly service payment when they equal or exceed the payment amount. Advance payment may be cancelled in My Account up to one hour before the payment is due.
Third-Party Content: Customers can purchase third-party content on a one-time or monthly basis from Sprint and other entities. Subscribers are responsible for all purchased mobile content, including content purchased by others on the account. Purchases can be blocked at no additional cost by calling Customer Care. Payments for purchased mobile content are deducted from the account balance and charges display in the online account.
Resale and Domestic Service: Our rate plans, customer devices, services and features are not for resale and are intended for reasonable use within the 50 United States, U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
Off-network Roaming: The availability of roaming services is dependent on your device and plan. Not all services (i.e., data, text, etc.) may be available when roaming. Roaming coverage, services and rates are subject to change at any time without notice.
Permitted and Non-Permissible Uses: You may use our network for: live voice calls for personal use, messaging and data (web, email, file transfer, apps, social media, gaming, streaming content). You are not permitted to use your device or services, including unlimited, in a way that: (1) is fraudulent, unlawful, infringes on intellectual property rights, harms or unduly interferes with the use of our network or systems or other parties’ resources; (2) uses services for commercial use (monitoring, telemarketing, autodialed calls, unauthorized marketing, connections consisting of uninterrupted live dialogue between people; (3) uses incompatible devices on our network (they may be blocked); and (4) Sprint determines is contrary to its network or customer interests. Calls for commercial purposes (e.g., chat lines or broadcast lines) may be subject to additional charges.
Data Limitations and Performance: With certain plans, data speeds may be slowed when the plan’s applicable data allotment is reached. During this time, data access will be limited to 2G speeds of 128Kbps or below for the remainder of plan cycle, slowing webpage loads, file downloads, and streaming media. Speeds will be restored at the beginning of the next month’s plan cycle or after a plan cycle restart. Usage amounts available in ‘My Account’.
Quality of Service Practices (QoS): To help protect against certain customers occupying an unfair share of network resources, unlimited data plan customers who use more than 35GB of data during a billing cycle will be prioritized below other customers for the remainder of their billing cycle, in times and locations where the availability of network resources is constrained. See sprint.com/networkmanagement for more details.
Wireless Emergency Alerts: Messages requested by governmental authorities in your area may be available on capable devices. Learn more at sprint.com.
GENERAL AND PAYMENT SPECIFIC TERMS & CONDITIONS; RECURRING CHARGE AUTHORIZATION
AutoPay Terms and Conditions
The following terms and conditions apply if you are enrolled in monthly AutoPay.
You, the Customer, authorize Sprint Forward to on a recurring basis, automatically charge the debit or credit card or PayPal account you specified for payments due on the Sprint Forward account number you specified at the time of the AutoPay enrollment. These recurring charges and all other charges to your account are nonrefundable.
Sprint Forward may discontinue processing of recurring charges if Sprint Forward is unable to secure funds from the credit/debit card or PayPal account for the payments you have authorized due to, but not limited to, insufficient or uncollected funds in the account or insufficient or inaccurate information you provided. If a payment is returned for any reason, you will not be able to use a credit/debit card or PayPal until your account is in good standing. Sprint Forward may, if applicable, undertake collection action, including application of returned fees to the extent permitted by law. All such fees may be collected electronically. TO KEEP YOUR ACCOUNT ACTIVE AND AVOID SERVICE INTERRUPTION, YOU MUST EITHER MAINTAIN A POSITIVE ACCOUNT BALANCE AT ALL TIMES OR PAY ANY APPLICABLE SUBSCRIPTION CHARGES, DEPENDING ON YOUR SERVICE PLAN.
Sprint Forward will send a text message notification to your Sprint Forward handset or an email, if an email is available, 10 days prior to any recurring charges. Sprint Forward will also send a notification 10 days prior to any recurring charges that varies in amount from the previous recurring charge or from the amount you selected and authorized at the time of the AutoPay enrollment; however, by enrolling in the Auto Pay, you elect to receive such notice only when a transfer differs from the previous transfer by more than $10.00.
You also understand that this authorization to pay the Sprint Forward account number you specified at the time of the AutoPay enrollment by recurring charges or debits is entirely optional and is not required to obtain or maintain my account with Sprint Forward.
You are responsible for providing Sprint Forward with accurate payment account information if such information changes in the future. You understand that you may call *2 or access your Sprint Forward account online at sprint.com/forward three days prior to your recurring charge scheduled date to update or discontinue AutoPay. Sprint Forward will not initiate further transfers or charges after you have cancelled AutoPay and Sprint Forward has had a reasonable period of time to process your request.
If you are enrolled in the Monthly AutoPay option, the following applies to you:
You will be automatically charged for any monthly recurring charges, bolt-ons, and add-ons, plus any applicable sales and local taxes, every month on your payment due date. Charges may vary each month based on your service subscription selection. You may check your payment due date at any time by accessing your account via our website.
 
 
 
Rate Plans
FOR ALL WIRELESS SERVICE PLANS:
** Mo. charges excl. taxes & Surcharges [incl. USF charge of up to 26.5% (varies quarterly), up to $2.50 Admin. & 99¢ Reg. /line/mo.) & fees by area (approx. 5 -20%)]. Surcharges are not taxes. See sprint.com/taxesandfees.
Activ. Fee: Up to $30/line. Reqs. credit approval and eBill. Included features/content may change or be discontinued at any time. AutoPay: $5/mo. discount may not reflect on 1st bill. Quality of Svc. (QoS): Customers who use more than 50GB of data during a billing cycle will be deprioritized during times & places where the Sprint network is constrained. See sprint.com/networkmanagement for details. Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate svc. if off-network roaming usage in a mo. exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 100MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited network use rules apply—see sprint.com/termsandconditions.
Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate service if off-network roaming usage in a month exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 100 MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply — see sprint.com/termsandconditions.
Quality of Service (QoS) on Unlimited Data Plan: Customers who use more than 50 GB of data during a billing cycle will be deprioritized during times & places where the Sprint network is constrained. See sprint.com/networkmanagement for details.
WIRELESS SERVICE PLANS:
No credit check requires valid Id. International services are only included with service plans on phone lines with credit check.
Sprint Unlimited Premium Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 100GB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 100GB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add’l. $25/mo. charge. Must remain on Premium plan for a minimum of 30 days.
Sprint Unlimited Plus Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 50GB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 50GB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add'l. $25/mo. charge.
Sprint Unlimited Basic Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 500MB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 500MB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add'l. $25/mo. charge.
Sprint Unlimited Kickstart Plan: Up to 5 lines. Incl. unlimited domestic calling, texting & data while on the Sprint network. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Sel. int’l. svc. incl. See sprint.com/globalroaming. No add-ons avail. Plan not avail. for tablets/MBB devices. Upgrading to phone that is not purchased at Full SRP or BYOD will require plan change.
Sprint Unlimited 55+ Plan: Reqs. new account activation. Acct holder must be 55 or older. 2 line max. Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting & data with 3G Mobile Hotspot VPN & P2P data. Discounted phones subject to add'l $25/mo./line. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets/MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included see sprint.com/globalroaming.
Sprint Unlimited Military Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 500MB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 500MB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add'l. $25/mo. charge.
Better Choice Plan: No discounts apply to access charges & early upgrade add-on charge. Incl. unlimited domestic calling & texting. Data allowance as specified. Non-discounted phones req. you to sign up for leasing, pay full MSRP or bring your own capable phone. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Max. of 10 phone/tablet/MBB lines. Incl. sel. allotment of on-network shared data usage & 100MB off-network data usage. Add’l. on-network high-speed data allowance may be purch. at $15/GB. Add’l. off-network data can be added by opt in only for 25¢/MB for tablets/MBBs. Mobile Hotspot Usage pulls from your shared data & off-network allowances. High speed data is access to 3G/4G.Discounted Phones Access ($45): Inv. will show a term access charge of $45/mo./line charge until the customer enters into a new device transaction that does not have an annual term svc. agmt.
Unlimited Line on Us Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, & data. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int'l svcs. are included for phone lines with a credit check. See sprint.com/globalroaming. If any lines are deactivated during first 12 months, discount will end. Hold line: line will be charged taxes and fees while being held for future use. Call and cancel hold at any time. Offer not transferrable. Only available to intended recipient.
2GB Plan: No discounts apply (except AutoPay discounts). Includes unlimited domestic Long Distance calling and texting. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Includes selected allotment of on-network data usage for phone and mobile hotspot use and 100MB off-network data usage. Add’l on-network high-speed data allowance may be purchased at $15/GB. Mobile Hotspot Usage pulls from your data and off-network allowances. High-speed data is access to 3G/4G. Add’l $25 line/mo. applies with subsidized phone until the customer enters into a new device transaction that does not have an annual term service agreement.
Unlimited Tablet Plan: Incl. unlimited texting on capable tablets & data with mobile optimized video streams at up to 480+ resolution, music at up to 500kbps, streaming gaming at up to 2 Mbps. Add Unlimited premium resolution streaming for add'l. $20/mo./line & get video streams at up to 1080+, music at up to 1.5 Mbps, gaming at up to 8 Mbps. Data deprioritization applies during times of congestion. After the 10GB, MHS, VPN & P2P usage will be limited to 2G speeds. Third-party content/downloads are add'l. charge. Int'l. svc. are not incl.
Watch Unlimited Plan: Includes unlimited data and texting on capable devices, while on the Sprint network. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Int’l svcs are not included. Excludes roaming.
Sprint Drive 2GB/Mo Plan: Sprint 4G LTE data only. No roaming. After 60 minutes of idle time, hotspot may automatically turn off. MHS reduced to 2G speeds after data allowance.
Sprint Drive Unlimited Plan: Sprint 4G LTE data only. No roaming. SD video streams up to 480p, music up to 500 kbps, gaming up to 2 Mbps. Data deprioritization during congestion. After 60 minutes of idle time, hotspot may automatically turn off. Customers who use more than 50GB of data during a billing cycle on unlimited will be deprioritized during times & places where the Sprint network is constrained. See sprint.com/networkmanagement for details.
Mobile Broadband Plan: CL only. Autopay does not apply. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Sprint may terminate service if off-network usage in a month exceeds: 100MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply— see sprint.com/termsandconditions. Add’l. off-network data 25¢/MB for MBBs. Data Carryover: Only avail. for on-network domestic data. Unused mo. data allowance from prior mo. rounds up to nearest KB & carries over from mo.-to-mo. Total mo. data allowance, incl. carry over data, is capped at twice the original mo. data allowance. Unused carryover data is not redeemable for cash or credit, is not transferable & expires with plan change. Applies from first full mo. bill cycle.
Sprint Phone Connect: No plan discounts apply. Domestic only. Excl. text, data, fax & other landline svc. (e.g., home alarm). 911 svc. may not be same as landline 911.
Sprint Essentials and Sprint Value Essentials: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, and data, & 3G-speed MHS, VPN & P2P. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs. are included for phone lines with a credit check. Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate service if off-network roaming usage in a month exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 200 MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply — see sprint.com/termsandconditions.
Sprint Essentials 55+: Reqs. eBill & new account activation. Acct holder must be 55 or older. 2 line max. Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting & data with 3G Mobile Hotspot VPN & P2P data. Discounted phones subject to add'l $25/mo./line. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs. are included for phone lines with a credit check.
Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate service if off-network roaming usage in a month exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 200 MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply — see sprint.com/termsandconditions..
Device Offers
All device offers are for a limited time unless otherwise specified and while supplies last. Credit approval required. Monthly credits for promotional device pricing, where applicable, end at end of term, early termination, early payoff, or upgrade—whichever occurs first.
5G devices: 5G is still developing; coverage not available in some areas. Not all devices & signals are compatible; may not support 5G tethering. Downlink only. Some uses may require certain plan or feature; see T-Mobile.com.
Trade-in offers: Eligible trade in phone must be unlocked, not lost/stolen, and not on a Sprint Lease. Customers must own trade-in device outright. Must be deactivated and all personal data deleted. Device will not be returned.
Watch Offers: Accounts without an active phone line will incur a $50/mo. charge.
Tablet Offers: Credits end at end of term, early termination, early payoff, or upgrade—whichever occurs first. Taxes and service charges excluded. No cash back. May not be combinable with other tablet offers. Requires activation at point of sale. Available to new and existing customers who have an active Sprint wireless phone line. Req. qualifying data plan and new activation. Only 1 Tablet Offer per account.
LG G8X ThinQ™ $100 Mastercard & Dual Screen Gift-with-Purchase Offer: ELIGIBILITY: The Offer is open only to current LG customers who are legal residents of the 50 United States, the District of Columbia (“D.C.”), US Virgin Islands or Puerto Rico who are 18 years of age or older at the time of redemption. Update! Due to extenuating circumstances, the Purchase Period for this promotion has been modified. The Purchase Period now ends on June 11, 2020 at 11:59:59 p.m. CT. Purchases made after this date will not qualify.

Device payment options
Lease (Sprint Flex): Monthly amount excludes tax. Credit approval required. Terms for all other customers will vary including amount due at signing & taxes/fees. Requires qualifying device & service plan. No equipment security deposit required. Upon completion of 18-mo. term, customer can continue to pay monthly lease amount, purchase or return the device. Customer is responsible for insurance and repairs. Early termination of lease/service: Remaining lease payments will be due immediately, and requires device return or payment of purchase option device price in lease.
24-Mo. Installments: Req. 24-mo. installment agmt, 0% APR & qualifying device & svc. plan. Device pricing for well-qualified customers. Models with higher memory config. may req. a down pymt. Mo. pymt. terms & down pymt. for all others will vary. Down pymt., unfinanced portion & sales tax (on full purch. price) due at purch. Early termination of 24-Mo. Installments/Svc.: If you cancel wireless svc., remaining balance on device becomes due.

Additional services
Amazon Prime Offer: Avail. content will vary. Streaming video content req. high-speed data connection. Data charges may apply.
iPhone Forever: Does not guarantee mo. payment amount, phone selection, or svc. plan rates. Upgrade after 12 payments as long as lease & early upgrade offered. Req. active line thru time of upgrade with min. 12 consecutive mo. svc. plan payments, new phone Lease Agreement, acct. in good standing, & give back of current eligible device in good & functional condition. After upgrade, remaining unbilled lease payments are waived. Upgrade does not incl. same generation model iPhone; must be next generation iPhone.
Galaxy Forever: Does not guarantee monthly payment amount, phone selection, or service plan rates. Upgrade after 12 payment as long as lease and early upgrades offered. Req. active line thru time of upgrade with min. 12 consecutive monthly service plan payments, new phone Lease Agreement, acct. in good standing, & give back of current eligible device in good & functional condition. After upgrade, remaining unbilled lease payments are waived. Upgrade does not include same generation model Galaxy, must be next generation Galaxy.
Annual Upgrades: Req. active line thru time of upgrade with min. 12 consecutive monthly payments, & add-on if required, new phone Lease, acct. in good standing, & give back of current eligible device in good & functional condition. After upgrade, remaining unbilled lease payments are waived. Add-on must be added within 30 days of purchase.
Clean Slate (formerly contract buyout) offer: Clean Slate: Amount based on ETF (early termination fee) charged or remaining phone balance. Req. port from other carrier to Sprint, remain active & in good standing for 30 days before card issuance & buyback of working phone in good condition (the device is unlocked, powers on and there are no broken, missing or cracked pieces) tied to offer. Phone must be deactivated & all personal data deleted. Device will not be returned. Reg, & submit final bill with ETF or phone balance w/in 60 days of switching at sprint.com/joinsprint. Allow 15 days after registration approval for Reward Card arrival. Excl. discounted phones, 100+ Corporate-liable, prepaid & ports made between Sprint or related entities. Prepaid Mastercard: Card is issued by MetaBank®, Member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International Incorporated. Mastercard is a registered trademark, and the circles design is a trademark of Mastercard International Incorporated. No cash access or recurring payments. Unused funds will forfeit after the valid thru date. Card terms and conditions apply.
Overnight shipping: $14.95: Order by 1 p.m. EST Mon-Fri, get it the next business day. Some models are backordered. See sprint.com/ship for details. If the device you're ordering is backordered, we'll ship your device overnight as soon as it’s available.
Sprint Complete: Our protection plans must be added within 30 days of activating your device. For more information, visit sprintcomplete.com.
Other Terms: Offer/coverage not available everywhere or for all phones/networks. May not be combinable with other offers. Accounts that cancel lines within 30 days of activating on promo pricing may void savings. Restrictions apply. See store or sprint.com for details. © 2021 Sprint.
For security reasons, your session will time out in 2 minutes unless you choose to continue.
Connecting to your account lets us quickly confirm your options, pricing and personal information.
Easily view or pay bills, update your account preferences, monitor data usage, upgrade online and get special offers.
You left some items in your Cart. Pick up where you left off when you visit your cart.
Your cart is being prepared.