##LINK: https://www.sprint.com/en/legal/acceptable-use-policy.html
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Acceptable Use Policy
##METHOD: paragraphs

Cart
Call to Order
Sign In
If you don't have an account.
                    Sign up here


Check Order Status 


My Sprint App 


Express Pay 

My Account
Navigate to:
Effective March 14, 2014

WEBSITE, USE & NETWORK MANAGEMENT TERMS

The following terms apply to your use of and access to any Sprint Corporation together with its subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, and licensors (collectively "Sprint ") owned or operated website ("Website"), as well as any electronic transmission sent, received, posted, accessed, or stored via any network ("Network").

 COVERAGE OF THIS POLICY

In addition to other agreements between you and Sprint, these terms explain the policies that govern your access to and use of our Website and Network. By accessing or using our Website or Network, you agree to these terms (collectively the "Policy"), as Sprint may modify it from time to time. Modifications to this Policy are effective upon its posting on our Website. If you do not agree to accept and comply with the Policy, then do not access or use our Website or Network.

 ILLEGAL OR HARMFUL USE

You may access and use our Website and Network only for lawful purposes. You are responsible for any transmission you send, receive, post, access, or store via our Network, including the content of any communication. Transmitting, distributing, or storing any material that violates any applicable law is prohibited. Additionally, the following non-exhaustive list details the kinds of illegal or harmful conduct that is prohibited:

ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

You may not distribute, publish, or send through our Network: (1) any spam, including any unsolicited advertisements, solicitations, commercial e-mail messages, informational announcements, or promotional messages of any kind; (2) chain mail; (3) numerous copies of the same or substantially similar messages; (4) empty messages; (5) messages that contain no substantive content; (6) very large messages or files that disrupt a server, account, newsgroup, or chat service; or (7) any message that is categorized as "phishing."

Likewise, you may not: (1) participate in spidering, harvesting, or any other unauthorized collection of e-mail addresses, screen names, or other identifiers of others or participate in using software (including "spyware") designed to facilitate such activity; (2) collect responses from unsolicited messages; or (3) use any of our mail servers or another site's mail server to relay mail without the express permission of the account holder or the site.

NETWORK SECURITY AND INTEGRITY

You may not violate the security of our Network in any way. Such violations may result in criminal or civil liability. Sprint may, but is not obligated to, investigate any violation of our Network. Sprint may cooperate with law enforcement where criminal or unauthorized activity is suspected. By using Sprint products and services or sending, receiving, posting, accessing, or storing any electronic transmission via our Network, you agree to cooperate in any such investigation. Examples of Network security violations include, without limitation:

INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE POLICY
We have the right, but are not obligated, to strictly enforce this Policy through self-help, active investigation, litigation, and prosecution.
Sprint reserves the right to act immediately and without notice to restrict, suspend, or terminate your use of the Network if it reasonably determines that your conduct may: (1) expose Sprint to sanctions, prosecution, civil action, or other liability; (2) cause harm to or interfere with the integrity or normal operations of Sprint's Network or networks with which Sprint is interconnected; (3) interfere with another Sprint customer's use of the Network; (4) violate any applicable law, rule, or regulation; or (5) otherwise present an imminent risk of harm to Sprint or its customers.
Sprint has the right, but not the obligation, to monitor or restrict any uses of the Network that Sprint reasonably believes in its sole discretion violate this AUP. You are solely responsible for all content that you transmit or receive utilizing the Network, and you are responsible for abuse of your account by others.
We may also access and disclose any information (including transactional information) related to your access and use of our Network for any lawful reason, including but not limited to: (1) responding to emergencies; (2) complying with the law (e.g., a lawful subpoena); (3) protecting our rights or property and those of our customers; or (4) protecting users of those services and other carriers from fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful use of or subscription to such services. INDIRECT OR ATTEMPTED BREACHES OF THIS POLICY AND ACTUAL OR ATTEMPTED BREACHES BY A THIRD PARTY ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY, CUSTOMER, OR USER MAY BE CONSIDERED BREACHES OF THIS POLICY BY SUCH COMPANY, CUSTOMER, OR USER.
MISCELLANEOUS
Any failure to insist upon or enforce performance of any provision in this Policy will not be construed as a waiver of any provision or right. Neither the course of conduct between the parties nor trade practice will act to modify any provision in this Policy. Sprint may assign its rights and duties under these terms to any party at any time without notice to you. If any provision of this Policy is deemed unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision will be deemed severable from these terms and conditions so that it does not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining provisions.
QUESTIONS, COMMENTS & ABUSE
If you want to report any violations of this Policy, other than those concerning child pornography, please email us at abuse@sprint.net. To make a report concerning child pornography, please go to the following Web link: http://www.sprint.net/index.php?p=support_ce_request.
Rate Plans
FOR ALL WIRELESS SERVICE PLANS:
** Mo. charges excl. taxes & Surcharges [incl. USF charge of up to 26.5% (varies quarterly), up to $2.50 Admin. & 99¢ Reg. /line/mo.) & fees by area (approx. 5 -20%)]. Surcharges are not taxes. See sprint.com/taxesandfees.
Activ. Fee: Up to $30/line. Reqs. credit approval and eBill. Included features/content may change or be discontinued at any time. AutoPay: $5/mo. discount may not reflect on 1st bill. Quality of Svc. (QoS): Customers who use more than 50GB of data during a billing cycle will be deprioritized during times & places where the Sprint network is constrained. See sprint.com/networkmanagement for details. Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate svc. if off-network roaming usage in a mo. exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 100MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited network use rules apply—see sprint.com/termsandconditions.
Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate service if off-network roaming usage in a month exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 100 MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply — see sprint.com/termsandconditions.
Quality of Service (QoS) on Unlimited Data Plan: Customers who use more than 50 GB of data during a billing cycle will be deprioritized during times & places where the Sprint network is constrained. See sprint.com/networkmanagement for details.
WIRELESS SERVICE PLANS:
No credit check requires valid Id. International services are only included with service plans on phone lines with credit check.
Sprint Unlimited Premium Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 100GB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 100GB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add’l. $25/mo. charge. Must remain on Premium plan for a minimum of 30 days.
Sprint Unlimited Plus Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 50GB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 50GB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add'l. $25/mo. charge.
Sprint Unlimited Basic Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 500MB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 500MB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add'l. $25/mo. charge.
Sprint Unlimited Kickstart Plan: Up to 5 lines. Incl. unlimited domestic calling, texting & data while on the Sprint network. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Sel. int’l. svc. incl. See sprint.com/globalroaming. No add-ons avail. Plan not avail. for tablets/MBB devices. Upgrading to phone that is not purchased at Full SRP or BYOD will require plan change.
Sprint Unlimited 55+ Plan: Reqs. new account activation. Acct holder must be 55 or older. 2 line max. Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting & data with 3G Mobile Hotspot VPN & P2P data. Discounted phones subject to add'l $25/mo./line. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets/MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included see sprint.com/globalroaming.
Sprint Unlimited Military Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, 500MB LTE MHS, VPN & P2P & data. MHS reduced to 3G speeds after 500MB/mo. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs are included for phone lines. See sprint.com/globalroaming. Subsidized devices incur an add'l. $25/mo. charge.
Better Choice Plan: No discounts apply to access charges & early upgrade add-on charge. Incl. unlimited domestic calling & texting. Data allowance as specified. Non-discounted phones req. you to sign up for leasing, pay full MSRP or bring your own capable phone. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Max. of 10 phone/tablet/MBB lines. Incl. sel. allotment of on-network shared data usage & 100MB off-network data usage. Add’l. on-network high-speed data allowance may be purch. at $15/GB. Add’l. off-network data can be added by opt in only for 25¢/MB for tablets/MBBs. Mobile Hotspot Usage pulls from your shared data & off-network allowances. High speed data is access to 3G/4G.Discounted Phones Access ($45): Inv. will show a term access charge of $45/mo./line charge until the customer enters into a new device transaction that does not have an annual term svc. agmt.
Unlimited Line on Us Plan: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, & data. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int'l svcs. are included for phone lines with a credit check. See sprint.com/globalroaming. If any lines are deactivated during first 12 months, discount will end. Hold line: line will be charged taxes and fees while being held for future use. Call and cancel hold at any time. Offer not transferrable. Only available to intended recipient.
2GB Plan: No discounts apply (except AutoPay discounts). Includes unlimited domestic Long Distance calling and texting. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Includes selected allotment of on-network data usage for phone and mobile hotspot use and 100MB off-network data usage. Add’l on-network high-speed data allowance may be purchased at $15/GB. Mobile Hotspot Usage pulls from your data and off-network allowances. High-speed data is access to 3G/4G. Add’l $25 line/mo. applies with subsidized phone until the customer enters into a new device transaction that does not have an annual term service agreement.
Unlimited Tablet Plan: Incl. unlimited texting on capable tablets & data with mobile optimized video streams at up to 480+ resolution, music at up to 500kbps, streaming gaming at up to 2 Mbps. Add Unlimited premium resolution streaming for add'l. $20/mo./line & get video streams at up to 1080+, music at up to 1.5 Mbps, gaming at up to 8 Mbps. Data deprioritization applies during times of congestion. After the 10GB, MHS, VPN & P2P usage will be limited to 2G speeds. Third-party content/downloads are add'l. charge. Int'l. svc. are not incl.
Watch Unlimited Plan: Includes unlimited data and texting on capable devices, while on the Sprint network. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Int’l svcs are not included. Excludes roaming.
Sprint Drive 2GB/Mo Plan: Sprint 4G LTE data only. No roaming. After 60 minutes of idle time, hotspot may automatically turn off. MHS reduced to 2G speeds after data allowance.
Sprint Drive Unlimited Plan: Sprint 4G LTE data only. No roaming. SD video streams up to 480p, music up to 500 kbps, gaming up to 2 Mbps. Data deprioritization during congestion. After 60 minutes of idle time, hotspot may automatically turn off. Customers who use more than 50GB of data during a billing cycle on unlimited will be deprioritized during times & places where the Sprint network is constrained. See sprint.com/networkmanagement for details.
Mobile Broadband Plan: CL only. Autopay does not apply. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Sprint may terminate service if off-network usage in a month exceeds: 100MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply— see sprint.com/termsandconditions. Add’l. off-network data 25¢/MB for MBBs. Data Carryover: Only avail. for on-network domestic data. Unused mo. data allowance from prior mo. rounds up to nearest KB & carries over from mo.-to-mo. Total mo. data allowance, incl. carry over data, is capped at twice the original mo. data allowance. Unused carryover data is not redeemable for cash or credit, is not transferable & expires with plan change. Applies from first full mo. bill cycle.
Sprint Phone Connect: No plan discounts apply. Domestic only. Excl. text, data, fax & other landline svc. (e.g., home alarm). 911 svc. may not be same as landline 911.
Sprint Essentials and Sprint Value Essentials: Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting, and data, & 3G-speed MHS, VPN & P2P. Third-party content/downloads are add’l. charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs. are included for phone lines with a credit check. Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate service if off-network roaming usage in a month exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 200 MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply — see sprint.com/termsandconditions.
Sprint Essentials 55+: Reqs. eBill & new account activation. Acct holder must be 55 or older. 2 line max. Includes unlimited domestic calling, texting & data with 3G Mobile Hotspot VPN & P2P data. Discounted phones subject to add'l $25/mo./line. Third-party content/downloads are add’l charge. Plan not avail. for tablets or MBB devices. Select Int’l svcs. are included for phone lines with a credit check.
Usage Limitations: To improve data experience for the majority of users, throughput may be limited, varied or reduced on the network. Sprint may terminate service if off-network roaming usage in a month exceeds: (1) 800 min. or a majority of min.; or (2) 200 MB or a majority of KB. Prohibited use rules apply — see sprint.com/termsandconditions..
Device Offers
All device offers are for a limited time unless otherwise specified and while supplies last. Credit approval required. Monthly credits for promotional device pricing, where applicable, end at end of term, early termination, early payoff, or upgrade—whichever occurs first.
5G devices: 5G is still developing; coverage not available in some areas. Not all devices & signals are compatible; may not support 5G tethering. Downlink only. Some uses may require certain plan or feature; see T-Mobile.com.
Trade-in offers: Eligible trade in phone must be unlocked, not lost/stolen, and not on a Sprint Lease. Customers must own trade-in device outright. Must be deactivated and all personal data deleted. Device will not be returned.
Watch Offers: Accounts without an active phone line will incur a $50/mo. charge.
Tablet Offers: Credits end at end of term, early termination, early payoff, or upgrade—whichever occurs first. Taxes and service charges excluded. No cash back. May not be combinable with other tablet offers. Requires activation at point of sale. Available to new and existing customers who have an active Sprint wireless phone line. Req. qualifying data plan and new activation. Only 1 Tablet Offer per account.
LG G8X ThinQ™ $100 Mastercard & Dual Screen Gift-with-Purchase Offer: ELIGIBILITY: The Offer is open only to current LG customers who are legal residents of the 50 United States, the District of Columbia (“D.C.”), US Virgin Islands or Puerto Rico who are 18 years of age or older at the time of redemption. Update! Due to extenuating circumstances, the Purchase Period for this promotion has been modified. The Purchase Period now ends on June 11, 2020 at 11:59:59 p.m. CT. Purchases made after this date will not qualify.

Device payment options
Lease (Sprint Flex): Monthly amount excludes tax. Credit approval required. Terms for all other customers will vary including amount due at signing & taxes/fees. Requires qualifying device & service plan. No equipment security deposit required. Upon completion of 18-mo. term, customer can continue to pay monthly lease amount, purchase or return the device. Customer is responsible for insurance and repairs. Early termination of lease/service: Remaining lease payments will be due immediately, and requires device return or payment of purchase option device price in lease.
24-Mo. Installments: Req. 24-mo. installment agmt, 0% APR & qualifying device & svc. plan. Device pricing for well-qualified customers. Models with higher memory config. may req. a down pymt. Mo. pymt. terms & down pymt. for all others will vary. Down pymt., unfinanced portion & sales tax (on full purch. price) due at purch. Early termination of 24-Mo. Installments/Svc.: If you cancel wireless svc., remaining balance on device becomes due.

Additional services
Amazon Prime Offer: Avail. content will vary. Streaming video content req. high-speed data connection. Data charges may apply.
iPhone Forever: Does not guarantee mo. payment amount, phone selection, or svc. plan rates. Upgrade after 12 payments as long as lease & early upgrade offered. Req. active line thru time of upgrade with min. 12 consecutive mo. svc. plan payments, new phone Lease Agreement, acct. in good standing, & give back of current eligible device in good & functional condition. After upgrade, remaining unbilled lease payments are waived. Upgrade does not incl. same generation model iPhone; must be next generation iPhone.
Galaxy Forever: Does not guarantee monthly payment amount, phone selection, or service plan rates. Upgrade after 12 payment as long as lease and early upgrades offered. Req. active line thru time of upgrade with min. 12 consecutive monthly service plan payments, new phone Lease Agreement, acct. in good standing, & give back of current eligible device in good & functional condition. After upgrade, remaining unbilled lease payments are waived. Upgrade does not include same generation model Galaxy, must be next generation Galaxy.
Annual Upgrades: Req. active line thru time of upgrade with min. 12 consecutive monthly payments, & add-on if required, new phone Lease, acct. in good standing, & give back of current eligible device in good & functional condition. After upgrade, remaining unbilled lease payments are waived. Add-on must be added within 30 days of purchase.
Clean Slate (formerly contract buyout) offer: Clean Slate: Amount based on ETF (early termination fee) charged or remaining phone balance. Req. port from other carrier to Sprint, remain active & in good standing for 30 days before card issuance & buyback of working phone in good condition (the device is unlocked, powers on and there are no broken, missing or cracked pieces) tied to offer. Phone must be deactivated & all personal data deleted. Device will not be returned. Reg, & submit final bill with ETF or phone balance w/in 60 days of switching at sprint.com/joinsprint. Allow 15 days after registration approval for Reward Card arrival. Excl. discounted phones, 100+ Corporate-liable, prepaid & ports made between Sprint or related entities. Prepaid Mastercard: Card is issued by MetaBank®, Member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International Incorporated. Mastercard is a registered trademark, and the circles design is a trademark of Mastercard International Incorporated. No cash access or recurring payments. Unused funds will forfeit after the valid thru date. Card terms and conditions apply.
Overnight shipping: $14.95: Order by 1 p.m. EST Mon-Fri, get it the next business day. Some models are backordered. See sprint.com/ship for details. If the device you're ordering is backordered, we'll ship your device overnight as soon as it’s available.
Sprint Complete: Our protection plans must be added within 30 days of activating your device. For more information, visit sprintcomplete.com.
Other Terms: Offer/coverage not available everywhere or for all phones/networks. May not be combinable with other offers. Accounts that cancel lines within 30 days of activating on promo pricing may void savings. Restrictions apply. See store or sprint.com for details. © 2021 Sprint.
For security reasons, your session will time out in 2 minutes unless you choose to continue.
Connecting to your account lets us quickly confirm your options, pricing and personal information.
Easily view or pay bills, update your account preferences, monitor data usage, upgrade online and get special offers.
You left some items in your Cart. Pick up where you left off when you visit your cart.
Your cart is being prepared.