##LINK: https://mobile.va.gov/content/va-video-connect-data-benefit-interruption
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: VA Video Connect data benefit: interruption | VA Mobile
##METHOD: paragraphs

An official website of the United States government

The .gov means it’s official.

			            Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
			          

The site is secure.

			            The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
			          
Find a VA Location
Ask a Question
Call MyVA311: 844-698-2311
TTY: 711
Expanding Veterans access to care through virtual technologies.
Offers tips and tools to help you partner with your health care team.
Uses health informatics and technologies to improve access to care, improving the health of Veterans.
The Department of Veterans Affairs thanks T-Mobile, Verizon, Sprint (now owned by T-Mobile), and SafeLink by Tracfone for their generosity in waiving data charges for Veterans using VA Video Connect.
Due to increased demand for video-based care during the COVID pandemic, VA has been rapidly reconstructing our VA Video Connect application so that more Veterans and VA care teams can use the system. During this time, Veterans using VA Video Connect with limited data plans could temporarily experience data charges; however, VA’s cellular partners have been working diligently to completely restore the “zero rating” program, following VA’s completion of the necessary technical changes to expand VA Video Connect capacity. Progress towards restoring the zero rating program for each partner carrier is listed below:
We will continue to update this site so that Veterans, their caregivers and families know when VA Video Connect can once again be used on all our partner carriers without concern for data charges.
If any issues arise regarding data charges related to VA Video Connect, please contact your cellular carrier.
Last Updated: 9/16/2020 1:30 p.m. ET