##LINK: https://www.thestreet.com/opinion/why-at-amp-t-sprint-t-mobile-and-verizon-likely-are-readying-a-content-binge-13998536
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: Why AT&amp;T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon likely are readying a content binge - TheStreet
##METHOD: article 1


Publish date: Feb 13, 2017 12:03 PM EST Why AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Likely Are Readying a Content Binge Expect mobile video to get more competitive after the Federal Communications Commission's recent decision on zero-rating. Author: Chris Nolter Expect mobile video to get more competitive after the Federal Communications Commission's recent decision on zero-rating. Competition among  AT&T  ( T ) -  Get Report  ,  Sprint  ( S ) -  Get Report  ,  T-Mobile US  ( TMUS ) -  Get Report  and  Verizon  ( VZ ) -  Get Report  for video content likely will intensify in 2017, after a recent decision from Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai. The FCC dropped its investigation into the wireless carriers' zero-rating offerings, which allow subscribers to stream certain content without eating into their data plans. Pai  said in early February  that the FCC would focus on expanding broadband coverage and new services, rather than the video plans. Zero-rating opens the door for vertical consolidation of wireless carriers and video producers, Macquarie analyst Amy Yong said. "The fact that you get some regulatory clarity on how the FCC looks at zero-rating could help companies make a decision," Yong said. As wireless services have matured and networks have improved, she suggested, music and video are one of the few ways for the telecoms to differentiate themselves. TST Recommends INVESTING Can Alibaba Turn Around Its Woes in the Second Half of 2021? Alibaba has been a sore laggard compared with its large- and mega-cap peers. Can that change in the second half of 2021? By Bret Kenwell INVESTING Astra Space Shares Soar as Space Race Takes Off Running 'With over 50 launches under contract, we will begin delivering customer payloads into low Earth orbit in summer 2021,' Astra said on its website. By Dan Weil PRESS RELEASES Omega Schedules Second Quarter Earnings Release Date And Conference Call By Business Wire AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson has compared zero-rating to 1-800 numbers, which allowed a business to pick up the tab for a long-distance call. In this case the telecom or another business is paying for the data "Like other carriers' sponsored-data programs, this program closely resembles free shipping for online commerce or 800-number toll-free dialing," AT&T argued in a white paper filed with the FCC in November. "Just as Holiday Inn covers toll charges when customers dial 1-800-HOLIDAY, participants in AT&T Sponsored Data cover data charges for the customers who consume their content on AT&T's mobile network." The  top online video properties in the U.S.  are owned by  Alphabet 's 
   ( GOOGL ) -  Get Report  Google,  Facebook  ( FB ) -  Get Report  ,  Yahoo!  ( YHOO )   ,  Comcast  ( CMCSA ) -  Get Report  ,  CBS  ( CBS ) -  Get Report  and  Microsoft  ( MSFT ) -  Get Report  , according to comScore.  Alphabet, Facebook and Comcast are holdings in Jim Cramer's  Action Alerts PLUS Charitable Trust Portfolio.  Want to be alerted before Cramer buys or sells GOOGL, FB or CMCSA?  Learn more now . Pandora  ( P )   and  Charter Communications  ( CHTR ) -  Get Report  could be targets for telecoms, Yong said. Pandora has a $3 billion market cap and  reported 81 million active listeners  at the end of the fourth quarter, down 100,000 from a year ago but a gain of 3.1 million from the third quarter. With a roughly $100 billion market cap, Charter would be a much bigger bite. Charter has about 17 million video subscribers. The largest of the private, independent online outlets is  BroadbandTV  of Vancouver, British Columbia, which develops content on topics ranging from music to video games, comedy and children's programming. In December, BroadbandTV's videos had 40.5 million unique viewers in the U.S, nearly 7 times  AwesomenessTV 's unique viewership, according to comScore. Globally, BroadbandTV's 290.4 million unique viewers was fourth, comScore said, behind Google, Facebook and native advertising group and video marketplace  Teads . Here's a look at some of the largest telecoms and their content plans. 1. AT&T Among the telecoms, AT&T has made the boldest bets on content. The company bought DirecTV for $67 billion in 2015 and is buying  Time Warner  ( TWX )   for $107 billion, both prices including assumed debt. AT&T provides its DirecTV Now streaming TV service to subscribers willing to pay $35 or more per month. The carrier noted that other companies also can provide zero-rated content on its network. "Thus, if a university wants to sponsor an online course, or a short documentary filmmaker wants to encourage viewing of his new film, or ESPN seeks to sponsor viewing of a sporting event, they can all pay the same sponsored rate that DirecTV pays AT&T Mobility," the telecom informed the FCC. Keep in mind that AT&T launched DirecTV under the Obama administration, which opposed zero-rating. "[Pai's decision] probably gives AT&T a little more ammunition to push that product a little more aggressively," Yong said. 2. Verizon Verizon  unveiled a new unlimited plan  over the weekend, suggesting it feels a competitive need to let subscribers consumer more content. In the video M&A market, Verizon has made smaller deals than AT&T. Last year, the telecom teamed with media conglomerate  Hearst  to invest in millennial-minded digital media companies AwesomenessTV and  Complex Media , a publisher that caters to young bro culture. Watch More: Verizon Joins the Unlimted Data War of 2017 In addition to video from AwesomnessTV and Complex Media, Verizon's go90 wireless app streams content from NFL and NBA games.  Acquiring or merging with Charter would bring Verizon's video subscriber count to 21.6 million, compared with AT&T's 25.3 million. Such a deal, however,  would not bring Verizon content  production firepower similar to that of AT&T after the purchase of Time Warner. Verizon could not immediately be reached for comment. 3. T-Mobile US T-Mobile US CEO John Leger has been aggressive with video. The carrier's Binge On plan offers free streaming of  Amazon  ( AMZN ) -  Get Report  Prime Video, Google's YouTube, HBO Now,  Netflix  ( NFLX ) -  Get Report  and other services. Last year, in a shot at AT&T, Legere added DirecTV to the list and offered to pay the $35 per month charge for DirecTV Now for customers who switched from AT&T to T-Mobile. 4. Sprint Sprint had a slow start in the content business, but  bought a 33% stake  in Jay Z-backed music streaming company Tidal in January. Tidal is known primarily for music streaming. In December, 83,000 unique video viewers on desktop computers watched 247,000 videos, according to comScore. That's a little more than 1% of AwesomnessTV's nearly 6.1 million views. Sprint said Tidal will develop exclusive content for its network, but the company declined to comment on its plans for zero-rated content. Tags terms: Features and Commentary Regulation Technology Opinion By   Chris Nolter