##LINK: https://www.fiercewireless.com/wireless/t-mobile-s-john-legere-voted-as-most-powerful-exec-u-s-telecom-for-2016
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: T-Mobile’s John Legere voted the most powerful exec in U.S. telecom for 2016 | FierceWireless
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
by  Mike Dano  |
 Dec 19, 2016 11:31am 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
T-Mobile CEO John Legere. Image: T-Mobile
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 After a week of voting, T-Mobile CEO John Legere is the executive who Fierce readers believe is the most powerful person in the U.S. telecom industry. 
 
 
 
 
 The result stemmed from a bracket-style tournament that we ran on our  website   throughout   last   week . The tournament contained 26 total executives spanning the telecommunications industry, from Netflix’s Reed Hastings to AT&T’s Randall Stephenson to C Spire’s Hu Meena. 
 
 
 
 
 
 We used Polldaddy.com for the actual voting each day, and repeated voting was prohibited with a block to cookies and IP addresses. 
 
 
 
 
 After four rounds of voting, the  final matchup  ran during the weekend and pitted Google’s CEO Larry Page against Legere. The final tally wasn’t close: Legere received around 92% of the roughly 7,000 total votes cast. 
 The result of our tournament—which, granted, was little more than a popularity contest—didn’t come as much of a shock. T-Mobile executives including  CFO Braxton Carter ,  CTO Neville Ray  and  Legere himself  publicly urged the company’s employees and customers to participate in the event—a tactic that’s not terribly surprising considering it aligns with the outspoken, interactive corporate positioning that T-Mobile executives from Legere on down have worked to employ for the past three years as part of the operator’s “uncarrier” branding. 
 However, there’s a strong argument to be made for Legere as the most powerful executive in the telecom market. Despite  concerns  over T-Mobile’s net neutrality positioning and its  ongoing   disputes  with labor unions, Legere has nonetheless managed to  create significant momentum  around T-Mobile’s business through a range of strategies including  paying off incoming customers’ early termination fees  and zero-rating users’  music  and  video  data. Importantly, many of those efforts have been copied by T-Mobile rivals including Verizon, Sprint and AT&T. 
 We hope you’ve enjoyed our powerful people tournament, and if you’re looking for more substantial insight into the telecom industry, I encourage you to check out Sean Buckley’s recent  deep dive into the battle between telco and cable operators over the business services market , or Monica Alleven’s  measured look at wireless operators’ ongoing 5G testing . Don’t hesitate to let us know what you think. –  Mike  |  @mikeddano 
 
 
 Read more on 
 
 25 most powerful people   John Legere   
 
 
 
