##LINK: https://www.vox.com/2016/3/31/11587386/sprint-amazon-prime-deal
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: You can now buy Amazon Prime for a month at a time — if you're a Sprint customer - Vox
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
 You can now buy Amazon Prime for a month at a time — if you're a Sprint customer 
 
 Customers can sign up for Amazon Prime as part of their monthly Sprint bill, but will have to pay a hefty premium. 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Ina Fried @inafried 
 
 
 
          Mar 31, 2016,  7:00am EDT
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options for: 
 You can now buy Amazon Prime for a month at a time — if you're a Sprint customer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reddit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pocket 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flipboard 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This story is part of a group of stories called  
 
 
 
 
 
    Uncovering and explaining how our digital world is changing — and changing us.
   
 
 
 Sprint is announcing Thursday that it will begin offering its subscribers the option to also get Amazon Prime on a monthly basis. 
 Consumers get the convenience of paying on their regular Sprint bill — but will pay extra for that privilege. Via Sprint, customers will pay $10.99 a month, which adds up to about $132 per year. That’s about one-third more than the $99 that customers pay Amazon when subscribing directly for a year. 
 The Amazon Prime service is the same — a mix of a music and video service, along with free two-day shipping and other perks. 
 Sprint, the fourth-largest U.S. mobile operator, says it believes customers will value the convenience of monthly billing and pay a bit more to avoid a long-term commitment. 
 “Our research shows a huge segment of the population are very interested in this,” Sprint marketing chief Roger Solé said in an interview. 
 There are some advantages to going month to month, which effectively reduces the cost of entry to Amazon Prime to $11. Customers could, for example, binge watch their favorite Amazon shows for a month and cancel. Others might see value in getting the free two-day shipping just for the holidays or a busy shopping period. A month-to-month option could also be attractive to those who can’t afford or don’t want to pay the larger lump sum, or for those weighing Amazon against other services that charge monthly, such as Hulu or Netflix. 
 Still, for long-time subscribers, it’s technically not a great deal, which contrasts with how Sprint has positioned itself as a value carrier. Pricing “has been a joint decision with Amazon and ourselves,” Solé said. 
 And unlike rival T-Mobile, Sprint is not exempting music or video from a customer’s data cap, a practice known as zero rating. 
 “That’s something we analyzed, but so far we have decided not to move forward in that direction,” Solé said, adding that most Sprint customers have either an unlimited or very large data plan. 
 Not to mention, he said, there are still net neutrality issues around zero rating. (It’s worth noting that Sprint-owned Boost Mobile  already offers zero-rated music streaming  from a number of services, though not Amazon Prime.) 
 The Amazon deal may not be Sprint’s last in the space, as Solé says the company prefers to partner with others rather than building its own entertainment options. 
 “If we were talking 10 years ago or even seven years ago that might be different,” Solé said. “We think that the world has matured. We have all of these over-the-top players that are developing fantastic innovations.” 
 This article originally appeared on Recode.net. 
 
 
 Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? 
 
    Millions turn to Vox to understand what’s happening in the news. Our mission has never been more vital than it is in this moment: to empower through understanding. Financial contributions from our readers are a critical part of supporting our resource-intensive work and help us keep our journalism free for all.  Please consider making a contribution to Vox today from as little as $3 .
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Next Up on
    
         Recode 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          The Latest
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trump is nowhere to be found on the Twitter clone his former spokesperson launched 
 Jason Miller’s new Gettr app has some issues. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Florida’s social media free speech law has been blocked for likely violating free speech laws 
 The Florida law prevented certain platforms from banning political candidates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How big business exploits small business 
 Companies like Facebook and Uber say they’re supporting small businesses while squashing them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More in The Latest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Latest on Vox 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Play 
 
 
 
 
 How sperm got all the credit in the fertilization story 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Edward Vega 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It’s incredibly hard to get a rape conviction. Bill Cosby’s release makes it feel pointless. 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Constance Grady 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Robots were supposed to take our jobs. Instead, they’re making them worse. 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Emily Stewart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How to be a good ancestor 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Sigal Samuel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trump is nowhere to be found on the Twitter clone his former spokesperson launched 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Shirin Ghaffary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The fascinating, horrifying history behind Steven Soderbergh’s new heist movie 
 
 
    
      By
       
 Alissa Wilkinson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
