##LINK: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/t-mobile-binge-strong-wireless-customers-jim-seigler
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: T-Mobile Binge On strong with wireless customers
##METHOD: article 1


T-Mobile Binge On strong with wireless customers Published on September 23, 2016 September 23, 2016 • 2 Likes • 0 Comments Report this post Jim Seigler Follow Proven Software Sales leader with over 20yrs consistent profitable SaaS  software revenue in BSS/OSS l 8600+ connections (LION) Like 2 Comment 0 Share LinkedIn Facebook Twitter 0 T-Mobile US’ Binge On video-streaming platform is a winner with consumers, according to a new report from Strategy Analytics. 
 The research firm found 99% of smartphone users tapping into the video service claimed to be satisfied with the quality of mobile streaming. The platform, which was  launched last year under the Binge On name  and since folded into the carrier’s  One rate plan , streams video content over T-Mobile US’ cellular network at 480-pixel video quality in its standard setting. Customers can now  pay extra  to have the service stream video at a higher quality. 
 The Strategy Analytics report said the findings came from SA’s AppOptix USA research platform using an opt-in panel of consumers, a telemetry application and big data analytics. 
 The results found 20% of T-Mobile US customers upgraded their rate plans in order to use the streaming video service, 14% of all wireless consumers said they were “very interested” or “extremely interested” in switching to T-Mobile US to take advantage of the streaming video service, and 68% of all wireless customers surveyed indicated “strong” or “moderate” interest in zero-rated streaming video at 480p quality. 
 “The survey results prove that Binge On has been a success for T-Mobile, helping to raise its [average revenue per user], increase mobile video usage and to give U.S. smartphone owners another reason to consider switching to T-Mobile,” wrote David Kerr, VP at Strategy Analytics. “Binge On has proved an important stage in the evolution from Simple Choice tariffs to T-Mobile One.” 
 The T-Mobile US service initially garnered some regulatory scrutiny as a potential violator of the Federal Communications Commission’s Open Internet rules. The FCC sent a letter to T-Mobile US  seeking additional insight  into the Binge On service, though FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler  initially stated  he did not think the service violated net neutrality or Open Internet provisions, indicating the offer was “highly innovative and highly competitive.” T-Mobile US earlier this year appeared to have soothed some content provider concerns by  implementing content provider control  over the video quality of the streamed content. 
 Imitation sincerest form of flattery 
 T-Mobile US rivals have, in various forms, jumped on the bandwagon of zero-rating streaming video content. 
 Sprint has been the most eager to copy T-Mobile US’ model,  rolling out a video optimization package  as part of its “Unlimited Freedom” rate plans designed to limit video streaming to 480p, or “DVD-like” quality. Sprint followed the launch with an offer for customers to  stream video over its cellular network at higher-definition quality  for an extra fee. 
 AT&T earlier this month moved to  zero-rating streaming video content  from its DirecTV and U-verse video platforms for its wireless customers, which now runs alongside its  offer of “unlimited” data access  for AT&T Mobility customers selecting one of the television services. 
 Verizon Wireless last week  added streaming content through the NFL Mobile application to its previously offered zero-rating of video content through its  Go90 video platform . 
 Jim Seigler Proven Software Sales leader with over 20yrs consistent profitable SaaS  software revenue in BSS/OSS l 8600+ connections (LION) Follow 0 comments Sign in  to leave your comment