##LINK: https://voqal.org/news/pressroom/start-star-cassie-bair-joins-voqal-team/
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: Start-Up Star Cassie Bair Joins Voqal Team - Voqal
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 New Managing Director to lead Mobile Citizen initiative 
 Longmont, Colo. – Sept. 11, 2014 – Mobile Citizen, an initiative of Voqal that aims to help bridge the digital divide by reducing the costs associated with Internet access for nonprofits and schools, has a new leader at the helm – Cassie Bair. Bair, who has over 15 years of experience in operations and strategic marketing, will serve as Mobile Citizen’s managing director. 
 “I’m excited to welcome Cassie to Voqal. Her nonprofit and start-up experience is key during this time of growth and change, both at Mobile Citizen specifically, and in the mobile sector as a whole,” said Adam Miller, Voqal COO. 
 Most recently, Bair served as the vice president of marketing and strategic partnerships at Mobile Accord, a private sector company, where she implemented national and international business strategy in the text for social good industry, including SMS based donation management, communications strategies and surveying. 
 Bair holds a master’s degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder in Integrated Marketing Communications and a bachelor’s degree from Appalachian State University in Applied Communications.  
 About Voqal 
Voqal is a collaboration of five nonprofit organizations that work to advance social equity by supporting nonprofit organizations and individuals that use technology and media to build an educated, empowered and engaged public. Voqal provides grants, fellowships, affordable mobile Internet, educational content and wireless spectrum advocacy. For more information, visit  voqal.org . 
 About Mobile Citizen  
Mobile Citizen was the first fourth generation (4G) service provider in the U.S. to offer mobile broadband service exclusively to nonprofits and schools at remarkably low cost. Mobile Citizen’s wireless Internet service is powered by 4G technology, which makes it lightning fast and easy to use.  Mobile Citizen is an initiative of Voqal. For more information, visit  mobilecitizen.org . 
   
 
 
 Also in   Pressroom   
 Tuesday: Philadelphians Protest Sprint Plan to Cut Internet to 300,000 
 Applications Open for Voqal Fellowship 
 Sprint to Cut 300,000 Americans’ Broadband Access, Lawsuit Charges 
 Nonprofits Seek Emergency Injunction to Stop Sprint’s Shutdown and Keep 300,000 Americans Online 
 Tues: Sprint in Court to Defend Plan to Shutdown 300,000 Americans’ Internet 
 Sprint Shutdown Suspended: Nonprofits Win Preliminary Injunction, Protect Internet for 300,000 Americans 
 Judge Rejects Sprint’s Effort to Continue Internet Shutdown, Force Nonprofits to Post $65 Million Bond 
 Thursday: Petition Delivery to Sprint Protesting Its Plan to Cut Internet to 300,000 
 Philadelphians Protest Sprint’s Plan to Cut Internet to 300,000 Vulnerable Americans 
 2016 Voqal Fellows Announced 
 Court Grants Motion By Nonprofits and Sprint to Extend WiMax Service Through March 
 Voqal Joins with 59 Companies and Grassroots Groups to Push FCC on Zero-Rating 
 Passionate Education Reformer Joins Voqal Team 
 Mobile Citizen Weighs in on “The State of School Technology” in Minnesota 
 Two Top Talents Join Voqal Team 
 Brand Assets 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
