##LINK: https://www.bartleby.com/essay/The-Impact-Of-Net-Neutrality-On-The-PC3A6V3X4F6
##KEYWORDS: paid prioritization
##TITLE: The Impact Of Net Neutrality On The Internet - 1192 Words | Bartleby
##METHOD: paragraphs

Impacts of Not Preserving Net Neutrality: Tiered Internet Service

1 INTRODUCTION
Net Neutrality is the principle that Internet users should be able to access any web content or use any application without restriction or limitation from their internet service provider [1]. Net neutrality can be further broken down into four core concepts as described by Daniel J. Weitzners, non-discriminatory routing of packets, user control choice over service levels, ability to create and use new services and protocols
Net neutrality: in the last decade, companies have worked to reduce it, politicians have clashed over it, and public interest advocates have fought to protect it. Ajit Pai, chairman of the United States Federal Communications Center (FCC), has proposed a bill to completely repeal net neutrality regulations, one of the Obama-era FCC's signature achievements. Network neutrality, or "net neutrality," is the principle that Internet Service Providers (ISPs) such as Comcast and Verizon must give consumers
INTRODUCTION
The emergence of the Internet and the World Wide Web brought upon a medium of communication with a range of opportunities for the world. However, this medium is, in due course, subject to the control of a few major companies. The enigma of information flow is the central concern of net neutrality. Consumers, competition and network owners would benefit directly from the regulation of network neutrality because it would provide a positive impact to those parties as well as provide equality
In this report you will find information about Net Neutrality. I want to inform you on how net neutrality may affect you and in what ways. Net Neutrality is an open and free way of internet. All information is shared without discrimination of the content and everything is shared equally. The purpose is to make you aware of Net Neutrality and the impact is would have on the internet with or without. Awareness about net neutrality is a must because regardless of your stance after being informed it
Net neutrality is a system of government protection, which stops internet provides such as Verizon or Comcast to control and see what we do online. It stops websites from slowing down, or blocking any online services they don’t accept. It was implemented by the FCC, but because of the trump administration, a new FCC chairman, and lobbying of congress, net neutrality may become extinct. Companies like Verizon, At&t, and Comcast are lobbying congress, to remove net neutrality laws. This act will be
In all its chaos and complexities, we love the open and free internet. And it’s safe to assume most people feel the same. 

But internet freedom is once again being called into question. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has unveiled its plans to repeal net neutrality. FCC chairman Ajit Pai (chosen by President Donald Trump), claims net neutrality’s “days are numbered,” as he aims to undo the net neutrality rules approved two years ago under Barack Obama. The decision will come to
The internet has become the main source of information, communication, and entertainment for many people. Services like Netflix have replaced cable in many homes while Amazon now has the capability of same day shipping and even the shipping of food ingredients in some locations. We are becoming ever more reliant on the internet for our day to day lives. We expect to have the ability to do what we want on the internet. Watch whatever movie we like on Netflix, look up what your friend did on Instagram
Net Neutrality is a widely debated topic that comes with not only great support but also logical opposition.  While looking at net neutrality you must consider several ideas that impact the topic.  Before looking at any ideas though, you must first understand what net neutrality is.  First, it is an abbreviation of network neutrality which is “the idea, principle, or requirement that Internet service providers should or must treat all Internet data as the same regardless of its kind, source, or destination”
topical subjects today is the importance of net neutrality. Net neutrality ensures that all of the data on the Internet is treated equally by internet providers. 
Recently the Federal Communications Commission repealed Obama’s Title II rules, which included net neutrality. This is a bad decision. The repeal of net neutrality will give internet providers the power to slow down and speed up certain websites and charge packages for categories of the Internet such as social media, videos, and messaging
The ideal usage of the internet is to go on and browse anything we want. All the entertainment, social media, and news would be at our freedom to view. We would expect fast speeds and the freedom to explore each and every website. Little did we know, all of the internet was protected by a set of rules that prevented Internet Service Providers (ISPs) from taking our internet freedom away. These rules are known as Net Neutrality. Net Neutrality is expected when we use the internet, otherwise, it would
Bartleby.com
Bartleby.com