##LINK: https://www.klfy.com/national/after-net-neutrality-brace-for-internet-fast-lanes/
##KEYWORDS: paid prioritization
##TITLE: After net neutrality: Brace for internet ‘fast lanes’
##METHOD: article 39



 
 
		After net neutrality: Brace for internet ‘fast lanes’	 
 
 National 
 
 
 
			by:  Melvin Karaski   
		
					Posted:  Dec 21, 2017 / 03:42 AM CST 
  /  Updated:  Dec 21, 2017 / 03:42 AM CST   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW YORK (AP) — Now that federal telecom regulators have repealed net neutrality, it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” 
 The net neutrality rules just voted down by the Federal Communications Commission prohibited such “paid prioritization,” as it’s technically known. That’s when an internet provider such as Verizon or Comcast decides to charge services like 
 YouTube or Amazon for faster access to users. Firms that decline to pay up could wind up in bumper-to-bumper slow lanes. 
 
 
 
 The Associated Press queried seven major internet providers about their post-net-neutrality plans, and all of them equivocated when asked if they might establish fast and slow lanes. None of the seven companies — Verizon, AT&T, Comcast, Charter, Cox, Sprint, and T-Mobile — would rule out the possibility. Three said they had “no plans” for paid prioritization, and a few declined to answer the question at all. 
 By contrast, several of these firms promised not to block or slow down specific internet sites and services, two other practices prohibited by the expiring net-neutrality rules. (Those rules won’t formally end until sometime in early 2018.) Any such move could set off a public uproar and might even trigger an antitrust investigation. 
 Here are the net-neutrality promises from the country’s biggest wireless and cable companies. 
 
 Verizon says it doesn’t block or slow access to internet sites and services, but had no specific response to queries about any plans for internet fast lanes 
 
 VERIZON 
 — FAST LANES: No specific response 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t do so, but declined to address the future. 
 THE WORDS: In a  Nov. 21 statement  , Verizon senior vice president Kathy Grillo said: “We continue to believe that users should be able to access the internet when, where, and how they choose, and our customers will continue to do so.” Asked whether Verizon will continue not to block or throttle content or whether it will charge internet companies to get better access to customers, Young said Verizon “does not block or throttle content and that’s the bottom line.” 
 
 AT&T says it “will not” block or slow access to internet sites and services, but had no specific response to queries about any plans for internet fast lanes 
 
 AT&T 
 — FAST LANES: No specific response 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW SITES: Says it “will not” do so 
 THE WORDS: Spokesman Mike Balmoris didn’t specifically answer when asked if AT&T will create fast lanes.  In a Nov. 30 blog post  , AT&T senior executive vice president Bob Quinn said: “We will not block websites, we will not throttle or degrade internet traffic based on content, and we will not unfairly discriminate in our treatment of internet traffic.” 
 
 Comcast says it “will not” block or slow access to internet sites and that it has “no plans” for internet fast lanes 
 
 COMCAST 
 — FAST LANES: Has “no plans” to create them 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW SITES: Says it “will not” do so 
 THE WORDS: In a  Dec. 14 blog post  , senior executive vice president David Cohen said: “We will not block, throttle, or discriminate against lawful content on the Internet; we will be fully transparent with respect to our practices; and we have not entered into any paid prioritization arrangements, and we have no plans to do so.” 
 
 Charter says it doesn’t block or slow access to internet sites and services and has “no plans” to change that or to create internet fast lanes 
 
 CHARTER 
 — FAST LANES: Says there are no plans to create them 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t do so and has “no plans” to change that 
 THE WORDS: In a  Dec. 14 blog post  : “We don’t slow down, block, or discriminate against lawful content. Simply put, we don’t interfere with the lawful online practices of our customers and we have no plans to change our practices.” 
 
 Cox says it doesn’t block or slow access to internet sites and services and has no plans to do so or to create internet fast lanes 
 
 COX 
 — FAST LANES: Does not plan to create them 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t do so and has no plans to 
 THE WORDS: In an emailed statement on Dec. 14: “We do not block, throttle or otherwise interfere with consumers’ desire to go where they want on the Internet.” A spokesman said the company has no plans to block or throttle content or enter into paid prioritization agreements. 
 
 Sprint says it doesn’t block or slow access to internet sites and services, but didn’t answer questions about its future plans; it had no specific response to a query about plans for internet fast lanes 
 
 SPRINT 
 — FAST LANES: No specific response 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t block sites, but didn’t answer questions about the future 
 THE WORDS: In a  press release  on Dec. 14, Sprint wrote: “Our position has been and continues to be that competition is the best way to promote an open internet.” 
 From its “open internet”  website  : “Sprint does not block sites based on content or subject.” 
 
 T-Mobile had no response to queries about its future plans with respect to either internet fast lanes or blocking or slowing access to internet sites and services 
 
 T-MOBILE 
 — FAST LANES: No response about future plans 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: No response about future plans 
 THE WORDS: A company spokeswoman pointed to a  February 2015 statement  from T-Mobile CEO John Legere: “We have always believed in competition and in a free, open Internet with rules that protect net neutrality — no blocking, no discrimination and transparency.” 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright 2021 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 


 
 
			
				The Pet Stop: Meet Otter and Lucky
					 
 
				by Sylvia Masters  /   Jul 2, 2021   
 
 Meet Otter and Lucky! They're looking for a home through Animal Rescue Foundation of Louisiana (ARFLA). They are around three months old and currently in foster care. Visit ARFLA.org or their Facebook page for more information on how to adopt Otter or Lucky! 
 
 
 
					Read the Full Article
											 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Video 
 
 
 


 
 
			
				Pair arrested in Morgan City for attempted armed robbery of home
					 
 
				by Scott Lewis  /   Jul 2, 2021   
 
 MORGAN CITY, La. (KLFY) -- Two men were arrested by Morgan City Police after they allegedly broke into a home on Marshall St. and demanded money from the person living there. 
 Callen Slay Richard, 24, of Morgan City, and Brennan Tatum, 24, of Pierre Part, were both arrested Thursday on identical charges of aggravated burglary, attempted armed robbery, attempted armed robbery with a firearm, possession of a firearm by a convicted felony and resisting an officer. 
 
 
 
					Read the Full Article
											 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
			
				Louisiana State Police raising awareness of traffic dangers on July 4 weekend
					 
 
				by Danielle Johnson  /   Jul 2, 2021   
 
 LAFAYETTE, La. (KLFY) -- Compared to last year's Independence Day weekend, roadways are expected to be jammed packed with travelers. 
 Louisiana State Troopers are raising awareness of things motorists should and should not do to keep themselves and others safe. 
 
 
 
					Read the Full Article
											 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Video 
 
 
 
