##LINK: https://www.reviewjournal.com/news/nation-and-world/internet-service-providers-wont-rule-out-paid-prioritization/
##KEYWORDS: paid prioritization
##TITLE: Internet service providers won’t rule out paid prioritization | Las Vegas Review-Journal
##METHOD: article 11



 
 
 Nation and World 
 
 Internet service providers won’t rule out paid prioritization 
 
 Now that federal telecom regulators have repealed net neutrality, it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
					By Tali Arbel The Associated Press				 
 
					December 20, 2017 - 6:12 pm				 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Updated December 20, 2017 - 7:54 pm 
 
 The entrance to the Federal Communications Commission building in Washington, June 19, 2015.. Now that federal telecom regulators have repealed net neutrality, it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” The Associated Press queried seven major internet providers about their post-net-neutrality plans, and all of them equivocated when asked if they might establish fast and slow lanes. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, File) Signage in a Verizon store in North Andover, Mass., July 25, 2016. Now that federal telecom regulators have repealed net neutrality, it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” The Associated Press queried seven major internet providers about their post-net-neutrality plans, and all of them equivocated when asked if they might establish fast and slow lanes. (Elise Amendola/AP, File) A Comcast sign in Hialeah, Fla., Oct. 12, 2017. Now that federal telecom regulators have repealed net neutrality, it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” The Associated Press queried seven major internet providers about their post-net-neutrality plans, and all of them equivocated when asked if they might establish fast and slow lanes. (Alan Diaz/AP Photo, File) An AT&T sign at a store in Miami., Oct. 12, 2017. Now that federal telecom regulators have repealed net neutrality, it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” The Associated Press queried seven major internet providers about their post-net-neutrality plans, and all of them equivocated when asked if they might establish fast and slow lanes. (Alan Diaz/AP, File) A Charter Communications van in St. Louis., April 1, 2015. Now that federal telecom regulators have repealed net neutrality, it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” The Associated Press queried seven major internet providers about their post-net-neutrality plans, and all of them equivocated when asked if they might establish fast and slow lanes. (Jeff Roberson/AP, File) 
 NEW YORK — Now that federal telecom regulators  have repealed net  neutrality , it may be time to brace for the arrival of internet “fast lanes” and “slow lanes.” 
 The net neutrality rules just voted down by the Federal Communications Commission prohibited such “paid prioritization,” as it’s technically known. That’s when an internet provider such as Verizon or Comcast decides to charge services like YouTube or Amazon for faster access to users. Firms that decline to pay up could wind up in bumper-to-bumper slow lanes. 
 The Associated Press queried seven major internet providers about their post-net-neutrality plans, and all of them equivocated when asked if they might establish fast and slow lanes. None of the seven companies — Verizon, AT&T, Comcast, Charter, Cox, Sprint and T-Mobile — would rule out the possibility. Most merely said they had “no plans” for paid prioritization, and a few declined to answer the question at all. 
 By contrast, several of these firms promised not to block or slow down specific internet sites and services, two other practices prohibited by the expiring net-neutrality rules. (Those rules won’t formally end until sometime in early 2018.) Any such move could set off a public uproar and might even trigger an antitrust investigation. 
 Here are the net-neutrality promises from the country’s biggest wireless and cable companies. 
 VERIZON  
 — FAST LANES: No specific response 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t do so, but declined to address the future 
 THE WORDS: In a Nov. 21 statement , Verizon senior vice president Kathy Grillo said: “We continue to believe that users should be able to access the internet when, where, and how they choose, and our customers will continue to do so.” Asked whether Verizon will continue not to block or throttle content or whether it will charge internet companies to get better access to customers, Young said Verizon “does not block or throttle content and that’s the bottom line.” 
 AT&T  
 — FAST LANES: No specific response 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW SITES: Says it “will not” do so 
 THE WORDS: Spokesman Mike Balmoris didn’t specifically answer when asked if AT&T will create fast lanes. In a Nov. 30 blog post , AT&T senior executive vice president Bob Quinn said: “We will not block websites, we will not throttle or degrade internet traffic based on content, and we will not unfairly discriminate in our treatment of internet traffic.” 
 COMCAST 
 — FAST LANES: Has “no plans” to create them 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW SITES: Says it “will not” do so 
 THE WORDS: In a Dec. 14 blog post , senior executive vice president David Cohen said: “We will not block, throttle, or discriminate against lawful content on the Internet; we will be fully transparent with respect to our practices; and we have not entered into any paid prioritization arrangements, and we have no plans to do so.” 
 CHARTER 
 — FAST LANES: Says there are no plans to create them 
 —BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t do so and has “no plans” to change that 
 THE WORDS: In a Dec. 14 blog post : “We don’t slow down, block, or discriminate against lawful content. Simply put, we don’t interfere with the lawful online practices of our customers and we have no plans to change our practices.” 
 COX 
 — FAST LANES: Does not plan to create them 
 —BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t do so and has no plans to 
 THE WORDS: In an emailed statement on Dec. 14: “We do not block, throttle or otherwise interfere with consumers’ desire to go where they want on the Internet.” A spokesman said the company has no plans to block or throttle content or enter into paid prioritization agreements. 
 SPRINT 
 — FAST LANES: No specific response 
 —BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: Says it doesn’t block sites, but declined to address the future 
 THE WORDS: In a press release on Dec. 14, Sprint wrote: “Our position has been and continues to be that competition is the best way to promote an open internet.” 
 From its “open internet” website : “Sprint does not block sites based on content or subject.” 
 T-MOBILE  
 — FAST LANES: No response about future plans 
 — BLOCK OR SLOW DOWN SITES: No response about future plans 
 THE WORDS: A company spokeswoman pointed to a February 2015 statement from T-Mobile CEO John Legere: “We have always believed in competition and in a free, open Internet with rules that protect net neutrality — no blocking, no discrimination and transparency.” 
 
 
 
 
 Posted on:  Nation and World ,  News ,  Science and Technology 


 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Federal executions stopped as Garland orders protocols reviewed   
 By Michael Balsamo, Colleen Long and Michael Tarm The Associated Press 
 July 1, 2021 - 9:39 pm July 1, 2021 - 9:39 pm 
 
 
 Attorney General Merrick Garland made the announcement Thursday night, saying he was imposing a moratorium on federal executions while the Justice Department conducts a review of its policies and procedures. He gave no timetable. 
 
 


 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Boy Scouts reach $850M agreement with sex abuse victims   
 By Randall Chase The Associated Press 
 July 1, 2021 - 7:52 pm July 1, 2021 - 7:52 pm 
 
 
 The Boy Scouts of America have reached an $850 million agreement with attorneys representing some 60,000 victims of child sex abuse in what could prove to be a pivotal moment in the organization’s bankruptcy case. 
 
 


 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 LA homemade fireworks blast injures 17   
 By Stefanie Dazio and Robert Jablon The Associated Press 
 July 1, 2021 - 5:58 pm July 1, 2021 - 5:58 pm 
 
 
 Seventeen people were hurt Wednesday night in the blast, which also flipped and damaged cars and smashed windows in homes and a laundromat. 
 
 


 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 California virus cases growing as delta variant expands   
 By Amy Taxin and Stefanie Dazio The Associated Press 
 July 1, 2021 - 5:19 pm July 1, 2021 - 5:19 pm 
 
 
 The nation’s most populous state is averaging close to 1,000 additional cases reported daily, an increase of about 17% in the last 14 days. 
 
 


 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Firefighters battle big wildfires in California heat   
 By Terry Chea and John Antczak The Associated Press 
 July 1, 2021 - 4:19 pm July 1, 2021 - 4:19 pm 
 
 
 Hundreds of firefighters worked Thursday in high heat to beat back wildfires in the forests of far Northern California, where the flames have forced many communities to evacuate. 
 
 


 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Charges revealed against Trump Organization, CFO   
 By Michael R. Sisak and Tom Hays The Associated Press 
 July 1, 2021 - 12:22 pm July 1, 2021 - 12:22 pm 
 
 
 Donald Trump’s company and its longtime finance chief were charged Thursday in what a prosecutor called a “sweeping and audacious” tax fraud scheme. 
 
 
