##LINK: https://broadbandbreakfast.com/author/drew-clark/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Drew Clark, Author at Broadband Breakfast
##METHOD: paragraphs

Democrats have decided they're against Big Tech. A smarter GOP would sense the opening and take it.
Now is the time in Congress for all good (and bad) broadband bills to be introduced.
Open access last-mile networks are an area of great commercial innovation and ferment in the United States right now.
WASHINGTON, December 30, 2020 – Here are my reflections on the top 10 broadband stories of the past year, presented from number 10 to number one....
TYSONS, Virginia, May 4, 2020 – The Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (“RDOF”) is a significant acceleration of the Federal Communications Commission’s efforts to subsidize the construction...
TYSONS, Virginia, and CINCINNATI, Ohio, April 14, 2020 – Marashlian & Donahue, PLLC, The CommLaw Group, and CostQuest Associates have announced a free webinar, “How to...
The Federal Communications Commission on Thursday waived several rules and extended the filing deadlines for Rural Health Care applications, extending them to June 30, 2020. This...
WASHINGTON, January 28, 2020 – The biggest high tech platform companies on the political and cultural landscape have nowhere to go but down, agreed a panel...
The largest open-access network in the United States has been a boon to its 11 member cities and is expanding to make broadband accessible even in...
WASHINGTON, December 13, 2019 – The industry group that is hammering out technical standards governing an anti-robocall framework announced Thursday that that the STIR/SHAKEN framework will...
ALEXANDRIA, Virginia, October 30, 2019 – The more one delves into the details of broadband mapping, the more complicated it becomes to understand issues of network...
LAS VEGAS, Nevada, October 18, 2019 – The Wireless Internet Service Provider Association annual conference opened here this week with optimism, a record turnout of more...
ARLINGTON, Virginia, October 17, 2019 – Federal Communication Commissioner Geoffrey Starks summarized his keynote message to the Schools, Health and Libraries Broadband Coalition’s #AnchorNets2019 with a simple scoreboard:...
ARLINGTON, Virginia, October 17, 2019 – Federal Communication Commissioner Brendan Carr highlighted his work at the agency on promoting telehealth, enhancing more flexible use of radio...
Big technology companies were a big target during Tuesday night’s debate in Ohio of the leading Democratic presidential candidates. No new candidate joined Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth...
In-Depth Analysis of the D.C. Circuit Court’s Decision in Mozilla v. FCC Demonstrates It is Just the Beginning of a New Chapter Debate Shifts to Congress and...
It seems that everyone except California and Alabama wants in on the action, whatever that action is, against Google. Attorneys general for 48 U.S. states, the...
Adding congressional oversight to the growing mix of interest in the broadband mapping debate, the House Energy and Commerce committee announced that the Communications Subcommittee will...
ASPEN, Colorado, August 20, 2019 – More than a dozen state attorneys general have launched an antitrust investigation of big tech giants, and they are working...
WASHINGTON, August 5, 2019 — President Donald Trump on Monday morning attempted to strike a tone of unity by denouncing the white, anti-Hispanic man who “shot...
The Founder of Broadband Census and Breakfast Breakfast, and the former executive director of the Partnership for a Connected Illinois – one of the State Broadband Initiatives...
Join the FREE National Webcast to Hear How Rural America Can Benefit from Better Broadband MONTROSE, Colorado, July 1, 2019 – Join an esteemed panel of...
WASHINGTON, June 12, 2019 – New critics of Section 230 of the Telecommunications Act seem to emerge every day on both the political right and the...
MONTROSE, Colorado, June 5, 2019 – The Rural Telecommunications Congress, a 22-year-old grassroots organization advocating for better broadband in Rural America, has announced its national “Fueling...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: This is fabulous news. Pew has one of the best reputations for consistent, credible, and long-lasting research on broadband adoption. Coupled with the...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: Doug Dawson once again nails it on his blog post. The 10 megabit per second (Mbps) download / 1 Mbps upload was outdated...
On Wednesday, the House Energy and Commerce will conduct a hearing on H.R. 2741, or Leading Infrastructure for Tomorrow’s America Act. Introduced by committee Chairman Frank Pallone,...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: On Monday, a mere five days after placing Chinese telecommunications manufacturer Huawei on the “Entity List” of effectively banned companies, the Trump administration...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: There is much to cheer for better broadband in Utah, including this report from today’s Daily Herald. The Utah Telecommunication Open Infrastructure Agency,...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: This OpEd last week highlights the importance of broadband data and mapping, the variety of efforts underway to address inadequacies in our informational base,...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: Together with her Democratic colleague Sen. Maggie Hassan, Republican Sen. Shelley Moore Capito on Friday introduced legislation designed to establish a national standard that would...
Next Century Cities this week highlights broadband programs in five states, in advance of the “West Central Mountains High Speed Internet Conference” on May 17 in...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: Rep. Anna Eshoo on Thursday introduced three separate measures designed to expedite broadband access. The Conduit Deployment Act and the CLIMB Once Act...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: Telecommunications industry and advocacy organizations on Wednesday and Thursday reacted to the introduction of the LIFT America Act, H.R. 2741, which stands for...
The Federal Communications Commission on Thursday released the names of 32 officials selected for the newly re-chartered Broadband Deployment Advisory Commission. The new BDAC, which will...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: The CEO and Executive Vice President of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade group for digital marketers, argue in a Tuesday OpEd for...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: On Tuesday, when the Senate Judiciary Committee expressed a growing bi-partisan sense of dismay about Chinese telecommunications manufacturer Huawei and its influence on...
BROADBAND BREAKFAST INSIGHT: California, and many other states, have muscled their way onto the national broadband stage. They’ve done this through legislation that would either require...
PROMONTORY POINT, Utah, May 10, 2019 – Think of the transcontinental railroad as the original public-private partnership. The linkage of the Union Pacific Railroad and the...
With the sudden resignation of National Telecommunications and Information Administrator David Redl on Thursday, the U.S. Commerce Department’s NTIA has updated its web page for Diane...
Copyright © 2008-2021 Breakfast Media LLC. Articles on Broadband Breakfast are not legal advice or legal services.