##LINK: https://www.broadbandtvnews.com/2017/10/09/regulators-deutsche-telekoms-zero-rating-service-partially-violates-net-neutrality/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Regulator: Deutsche Telekom’s zero-rating partially violates net neutrality
##METHOD: article 3


Regulator: Deutsche Telekom’s zero-rating partially violates net neutrality October 9, 2017 21.10 Europe/London  By  Jörn Krieger Germany’s Federal Network Agency has decided that Deutsche Telekom’s controversial zero-rating tariff option StreamOn violates net neutrality rules in some points. In general, however, zero-rating services in which the usage of selected video and audio streaming services does not reduce the high-speed data volume integrated in consumers’ mobile phone tariffs, are permitted, according to the regulators. The authority finds faults in details, for example that Telekom does not equally treat video and audio services when reducing the data rate and that  StreamOn  can’t be used in EU countries outside Germany which would violate roaming regulations. Telekom now has to react within two weeks and remove the faults identified by the regulators. “We have received the letter from the authority. However, we do not share the authority’s legal position. It only applies its own very narrow interpretation of EU law in this case,” a Telekom spokesperson told  Broadband TV News . “But we are pleased to note that the Federal Network Agency confirms our position that zero-rating is generally possible.” Deutsche Telekom would stand for an open and free internet, affirmed the spokesman. “The important factor at StreamOn is: Every provider of music or video streaming can easily become a partner with us and the partners do not have to pay us. There is no discrimination.” StreamOn was attractive for consumers and streaming service providers, he added. The Federation of German Consumer Organisations (VZBV) is dissatisfied with the decision of the regulators. The consumer protectors had demanded a complete ban on Telekom’s tariff option. “The decision of the Federal Network Agency not to prohibit StreamOn and other zero-rating offers in principle is at the expense of the free internet. This will not only reduce the freedom of choice for consumers, but also competition between service providers,” VZBV chairman Klaus Müller criticised in Berlin. Zero rating offers would create realities on the market that pave the way to a two-class internet and keep tariff prices high, said Müller. “The aim should be to obtain more integrated data volume for the monthly basic price, as it has been standard in many other EU countries for a long time.” Vodafone also recently  announced a zero-rating service . The Federal Network Agency is currently  examining the project . Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) Related Filed Under:  Distribution ,  Editor's Choice ,  Newsline ,  OTT ,  Regulation/Legal ,  Streaming ,  Telco ,  Top Story   Tagged With:  consumer protection ,  Deutsche Telekom ,  Federal Network Agency ,  Net Neutrality ,  StreamOn ,  violation ,  Vodafone ,  zero rating  Edited:  October 11, 2017   09:14  
Magine Pro White Paper: Key trends across online video consumer behaviour Over the last 12 months, we’ve seen an unprecedented acceleration of growth in streaming services on the supply side, as well as an increase in cord-cutting and self-bundling on the demand side, creating considerable opportunities in which niche players can effectively capture audiences. Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
White Paper: The Seven Pillars of Super-Aggregation Your pay-TV customers are likely juggling multiple entertainment services – and managing the complex discovery and billing challenges that come with them. In this white paper, find out how to harness the power of super-aggregation to improve their experience and reduce churn while maximizing the value of your video service. Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)