##LINK: https://rethinkresearch.biz/articles/deutsche-telekom-hungary-gets-warning-shot-net-neutrality/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Deutsche Telekom in Hungary gets warning shot over net neutrality - Rethink
##METHOD: article 1


While all the way over in the US, politicians of the Republican persuasion are loudly decrying the way Net Neutrality principles can only be upheld by “odious” legislation and regulation, a precedent is about to be set on the European Union’s doorstep, a first complaint against “zero rated” data services. This particular one is in Hungary, and it is against Magyar Telekom, a business ultimately controlled by Deutsche Telekom, with just under 60% control, and it looks like the German parent has chosen Hungary to test the European Commission rulings on Net Neutrality, expecting it to get a kinder hearing there, than perhaps in Germany, and where it has less to lose and a lower cost if it fails. It had previously offered a 24-hour unlimited access to a TV Everywhere service, TV Go, as well as when reselling HBO Go, when it did not charge any data charges for delivery. The NMHH (telecoms regulator) has said this discriminates against competing OTT video services and instead of issuing a fine, it has just called for the practice to be stopped. The directive on Net Neutrality for Europe was only completed in September and is not quite so clear in Europe as the US FCC directive, which said quite clearly that zero rating would not be tolerated. Interestingly the European Union was pilloried for not making this specific use case clear. But in Europe regulators have teeth, and while the FCC is still trying to bring cases against AT&T and Verizon in the US for the practice of zero rating, no-one is really taking the FCC seriously, simply because the of the President Elect’s power to install a new chairman and his known opposition to over-regulating anything, never mind the internet. The EU telecoms regulator BEREC (Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications) published guidelines on how NRAs (National Regulatory Authorities) should go about implementing new net neutrality rules in September. The European Parliament had told BEREC to tighten up its rules to ensure that ISPs could not promote their own services at the expense of others, and so BEREC adopted net neutrality rules which aimed at providing a balance between giving consumers freedom, while at the same time not going overboard on restricting operators. Zero rating was never specifically outlawed, the practice of exempting some apps or types of traffic from counting towards a user’s monthly data allowance. The BEREC guidelines say that regulators could allow zero rating for an entire category of applications, such as all video streaming services, a bit like the way T-Mobile USA allows on its Binge-On. Theoretically AT&T is saying that it adheres to this also, and that the zero rating which it offers DirecTV Now is the same cost as it would charge outside OTT providers. But in that case, they would have to agree to pay AT&T money for carriage, and if they didn’t agree that, their services would use up consumer’s data. We are clear that this would not quite qualify as adhering to BEREC’s rules if European operators did the same as in the AT&T case. BEREC explained that this would create an economic incentive to use one service over another and as a result says the practice of applying zero rating to specific applications will “undermine the essence of an end users’ rights” or lead to circumstances where “end users’ choice is materially reduced in practice.” Essentially any OTT player which does not have its own network or already operates at scale, would not be in a position to afford to operate when up against an existing MNO. Under the European guidelines, ISPs can only block or slow down internet traffic when they are complying with another law, or if they are preserving the integrity and security of the network, or for purposes of congestion management. Meanwhile in the US, existing FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler is still hounding Verizon and AT&T, telling them their policies for zero-rated content could harm competition and consumers. But most coverage of the FCC focuses on who will be the next chairman, and whether or not they will eliminate Title II entirely from internet legislation.