##LINK: https://calawyers.org/publications/antitrust-unfair-competition-law/competition-spring-2021-vol-31-no-1-big-antitrust-trial-newyork-v-deutsche-telekom-ag-s-d-n-y/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Big Antitrust Trial: Newyork v. Deutsche Telekom Ag (S.D.N.Y.) – California Lawyers Association
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
 
                        Antitrust and Unfair Competition Law                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Competition: Spring 2021, Vol 31, No. 1 
 
 
 
 
 Content Recent Developments In Federal Antitrust Law 
 Big Antitrust Trial: Newyork v. Deutsche Telekom Ag (S.D.N.Y.) 
 Diversity and Inclusion In the Legal Profession: a Missed Opportunity For the Antitrust Practice 
 Damage Methodology Trends Within False Advertising and Product Defect Class Actions 
 Recent Developments In California Competition and Privacy Law 
 Masthead 
 A Conversation About Diversity, Racism and Equality In the Legal Profession 
 The Correlation Between Antitrust Enforcement and Gender Equality 
 Chair's Column 
 Editor's Notes 
 A Conversation With California Supreme Court Justice Joshua P. Groban 
 Antitrust Analysis of Frand Licensing Post-ftc v. Qualcomm 
 Perspectives On the Role of Antitrust Law In Social Justice   
 
 
 
 
 BIG ANTITRUST TRIAL: NEWYORK v. DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (S.D.N.Y.) By Laura Wilkinson 1 In the  New York v. Deutsche Telekom AG  case, California and other states challenged the merger of Sprint and T-Mobile, the third and fourth largest wireless networks in the United States. They did so even after the United States Department of Justice approved the merger on the condition that Sprint sell some of its assets to DISH Network. Just before trial, the trial court ordered that it would not hear opening statements. On this panel, California’s lead counsel and T-Mobile’s lead counsel give abbreviated versions of the opening statements that were prepared, as well as discuss the trial. PANELISTS Paula Blizzard  is currently a Supervising Deputy General Counsel of the California Attorney General’s Office in the Antitrust Section, where she was California’s lead counsel in  New York v. Deutsche Telekom AG.  She recently spent two years at the Federal Communication Commission as Deputy Bureau Chief of the Enforcement Bureau, bringing enforcement actions against telecom carriers as well as working on Net Neutrality. From 2000 to 2004, she was at the U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division, working on  US v. Microsoft  and  US v. Oracle  (Peoplesoft merger). As a partner at Keker, Van Nest & Peters from 2004-2014, she tried all manner of cases, including many patent and antitrust cases. Notable antitrust matters included pharmaceutical pay-for-delay FTC investigations,  In Re Tricor Antitrust Litigation, In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust Litigation, In re High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation, San Jose v. MLB, In re Auto Parts Antitrust Litigation,  and  NY v. Intel. 
 
 
 
			Join CLA to access this page		 
 Join 
 Log in 
 
 
 
 
