##LINK: https://www.cr-report.telekom.com/site19/strategy-management/representing-political-interests
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Representing political interests | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report - Deutsche Telekom
##METHOD: paragraphs

Die Webseite benötigt Javascipt um ordnungsgemäß zu funktionieren!Bitte aktivieren Sie Javascript in Ihrem Browser oder wechseln Sie zu einem Browser der Javascript unterstützt.
 	Politics and regulatory agencies have an impact on the development and availability of network infrastructures, technologies and services. This directly impacts the competitiveness of telecommunications companies as well as business in general, which relies on having a fast network infrastructure as well as state-of-the-art telecommunications services. In addition, telecommunication networks, and the innovative applications and content that can be accessed over them, play a major role in promoting social cohesion in our information society, which is why we engage in active, ongoing dialog with all interested stakeholders from the spheres of politics and society.
 	Our partners from parliaments, governments and non-profit organizations need to uphold their independence and integrity. This principle is codified in Deutsche Telekom's Code of Conduct. Donations to political institutions, parties and political representatives are not allowed, for example. Instead, we place importance on factual communication, competence, credibility and integrity. As a result, politicians and stakeholders feel that the information we provide is authentic and credible and refer to this information when forming their own opinions. Deutsche Telekom is registered in the official transparency register for lobbyists in Brussels. Within the context of our collaboration efforts in associations and other bodies, we feel that we are under the obligation to comply with all ethical codes and legal provisions.
 





Do you have questions on this topic?Ask our expert:
Felix Sonnet


 	Having a high-performance, reliable and secure broadband infrastructure is the basis of success for all business sectors and is a key factor in making a business location attractive. Deutsche Telekom has been making considerable contributions for years by investing heavily in the infrastructure for fixed-network and mobile (fiber-optic) internet. We show more commitment than any other company to providing full-area coverage, particularly in rural areas.
 	In order to drive network expansion, network operators in Germany need investment incentives, legal and regulatory planning security, and technological freedom of action. That enables them to respond flexibly to the circumstances of enterprises and households and meet political, economic, and social requirements. This is the only way to fully tap private network expansion potential using all available technologies. In areas where broadband roll-out is not economically feasible, it is up to the public sector to develop far-sighted technology and provider-independent incentive programs to help effectively finance these efforts. Legal frameworks and regulatory practice need to actively support private-sector investment in new fiber-optic networks and prevent unnecessary financial burdens and red tape for the network operators investing in networks.
 	In view of the fact that the internet and telecommunications market are converging rapidly and in light of the growing market power of a few global internet players, sector-specific regulation of telecommunications is creating more and more of an imbalance. The same laws and regulations that apply to telecommunications companies also need to apply to internet companies providing the same services. The objective here must be to create equal competitive conditions and enable fair distribution of the financial burden involved in broadband expansion.
 	As part of the EU Telecoms Package, regulations on network neutrality were adopted and went into effect on April 30, 2016. The regulations particularly address permitted traffic management, once again raise transparency requirements and limit commercial product and service differentiation on the internet.
 	Deutsche Telekom remains committed to preserving an open internet. Content and services will continue to be available online in accordance with the best effort principle, meaning they will be available to the extent permitted by the available resources. We continue to expand and optimize our infrastructure so that we are able to cope with rapidly increasing amounts of data traffic and constantly upgrade our network. As a result, we meet our customers' increasing demands and live up to the requirements of online content and application providers who also want to be able to provide their services in high quality in the future.
 	Building on the best effort internet, we are developing an innovative network architecture – 5G networks – which can better and more flexibly meet the various transmission quality requirements of the various services. We thereby fulfill business and regulatory requirements and enable innovation in the services we offer on our networks. Content will in no way be controlled, however. We support internet freedom and do not influence user or provider content in any way. We will continue to take a non-discriminatory approach to marketing services with different quality-of-service levels in competition with other network operators.
 	Deutsche Telekom aims to become the leading European telco. That is why we again gave high priority to consumer-related topics in 2018.
 	Main topics included the following:
 	Within the scope of ongoing IP migration in the fixed-line network, Deutsche Telekom has switched most of its customers to IP, especially in the last four years, and has undertaken numerous measures to make the migration as easy and seamless as possible for customers. Deutsche Telekom is also continuing its commitment in issues of provider switching, with the goal being to make it easier for both fixed-network and mobile consumers to switch providers without any service interruptions. In all these areas, Deutsche Telekom stands for a constructive and solution-oriented approach that is geared to both the consumers' interests and the interests of our company.