##LINK: https://www.thestreet.com/technology/google-android-phone-finally-appears-10438878
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Google Android Phone Finally Appears - TheStreet
##METHOD: article 1


Publish date: Sep 23, 2008 1:28 PM EDT Google Android Phone Finally Appears Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile unit unveils its new G1 cell phone with Google software. Author: MainStreet Staff Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile unit unveils its new G1 cell phone with Google software. Deutsche Telekom's ( STOCK QUOTE: DT ) T-Mobile unit unveiled its new G1 cell phone Tuesday, the first device to feature Google's ( STOCK QUOTE: GOOG ) new Android software. T-Mobile is the exclusive carrier in the U.S. for the first Android-powered mobile phone. The G1 will be available at T-Mobile retail stores beginning Oct. 22 for $179 plus a two-year voice and data agreement. T-Mobile said it will also bring the new G1 phone to the U.K. in November and several other European countries, including Germany, Austria, Czech Republic and the Netherlands, in the first quarter of 2009. The T-Mobile G1 offers full touch-screen functionality combined with a QWERTY keyboard, creating another rival for Apple's ( STOCK QUOTE: AAPL ) popular iPhone 3G. The G1 will also include Google services such as Google Maps, Gmail and YouTube. T-Mobile's G1 The phone will feature built-in support for T-Mobile's EDGE network, as well as Wi-Fi connections. The G1 will also work on T-Mobile's high-speed 3G network, although the carrier is still in the process of a nationwide 3G rollout. TST Recommends INVESTING Can Alibaba Turn Around Its Woes in the Second Half of 2021? Alibaba has been a sore laggard compared with its large- and mega-cap peers. Can that change in the second half of 2021? By Bret Kenwell INVESTING Astra Space Shares Soar as Space Race Takes Off Running 'With over 50 launches under contract, we will begin delivering customer payloads into low Earth orbit in summer 2021,' Astra said on its website. By Dan Weil PRESS RELEASES Omega Schedules Second Quarter Earnings Release Date And Conference Call By Business Wire "We are proud that T-Mobile is the first operator in the world to launch an Android-powered mobile device," said Christopher Schläffer, group product and innovation officer of Deutsche Telekom, in a release. "With the T-Mobile G1, we are continuing our strong tradition of being pioneers in the world of the open Internet." The G1, produced by handset maker HTC, will also come preloaded with Amazon.com (STOCK QUOTE: AMZN) software that will allow users to download MP3 music files directly to the handset, similar to Apple's iTunes mobile store on the iPhone. Shares of T-Mobile's parent Deutsche Telekom were rising 0.2% to $15.58. Google was up 2% to $438.44.  Google's T-Mobile G1 Phone: It's Here Tags terms: Credit Cards Personal Finance By   MainStreet Staff