##LINK: https://www.wired.com/2007/11/t-mobile-and-sp/
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: T-Mobile and Sprint Have no Android Plans...Yet. | WIRED
##METHOD: article 1


Terrence Russel l Business 11.05.2007 04:33 PM T-Mobile and Sprint Have no Android Plans...Yet. News of Google’s new mobile operating system may have titillated some, but it has also confused many. After all, what does this really mean for our handsets and monthly bills? Who better to consult than the wireless service providers themselves to get the straight dope. We reached out to T-Mobile and Sprint to see what […] Facebook Twitter Email Save Story To revist this article, visit My Profile, then  View saved stories . Facebook Twitter Email Save Story To revist this article, visit My Profile, then  View saved stories . News of  Google's new mobile operating system  may have titillated some, but it  has also confused many . After all, what does this really mean for our handsets and monthly bills? Who better to consult than the wireless service providers themselves to get the straight dope. We reached out to T-Mobile and Sprint to see what their plans are for Android, and the responses we got were. . .well, a little underwhelming. When we approached T-Mobile with questions regarding its Android-enabled plans, we received the following from a company spokesperson: "As a founding member of the Open Handset Alliance, T-Mobile is committed to innovation and fostering an open platform for wireless services to meet the rapidly evolving and emerging needs of wireless customers," said René Obermann, Chief Executive Officer, Deutsche Telekom, parent company of T-Mobile. "Google has been an established partner for T-Mobile's groundbreaking approach to bring the mobile open Internet to the mass market. We see the Android platform as an exciting opportunity to launch robust wireless Internet and Web 2.0 services for T-Mobile customers in the US and Europe in 2008." It wasn't clear what context Obermann was speaking in, but we're pretty sure this was part of a press release at some point. . .since he wasn't the spokesperson who replied to our original inquiry. In addition to the above snippet, we received a general status report stating that things are still early, and a number of details have yet to be determined. So, in terms of T-Mobile's customers, we're in the dark for the time being. And Sprint? A company spokesperson told us that "Sprint has just agreed to support the Android software," and that any discussion above and beyond the company's press release would be speculative. So, in terms of Sprint's service, we're also left to guess. As Dylan stated earlier, after a day of raised expectations and fanfare, we're still left with relatively little data. Hopefully information will materialize as we get closer to the  Nov. 12th SDK release .