##LINK: https://www.broadbandtvnews.com/2014/09/15/netflix-kicks-off-in-germany/
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Netflix kicks off in Germany
##METHOD: article 3


Netflix kicks off in Germany September 15, 2014 23.53 Europe/London  By  Jörn Krieger Global subscription video-on-demand market leader Netflix has launched its service for internet users in Germany on September 16, 2014, at midnight CET. For a flat fee from €7.99 per month, the US company offers movies, series, comedy shows, documentaries and children’s programmes for access on the connected TV set, PC, laptop, tablet and smartphone through the open internet. Netflix will also be available as an app on Deutsche Telekom’s IPTV platform Entertain. The service will be rolled out across all Entertain set-top-boxes in the forthcoming weeks. In addition to well-known series like  House of Cards ,  Breaking Bad ,  Pretty Little Liars  and  Sons of Anarchy , the line-up also contains series which haven’t been aired in Germany yet, for example  Orange Is the New Black ,  BoJack Horseman ,  Fargo ,  Penny Dreadful  and  From Dusk Till Dawn , the series adaption of the movie of the same name. The movie portfolio comprises titles such as  21 Jump Street ,  Hangover  and  Inception . Local German productions are also part of the line-up, for example series like  Stromberg ,  Pastewka  and  Der Tatortreiniger  as well as movies like  Keinohrhasen  and  Zweiohrküken  with  Stromberg – der Film  to follow in October. For access,  Netflix Germany  recommends a data rate of at least 3Mbps for SD content, 5Mbps for HD content and 25Mbps for Ultra HD content. The basic subscription for €7.99 per month enables access on one device at a time to SD content. Viewers wanting to access Netflix in HD quality on up to two devices simultaneously pay €8.99 per month. Customers signing up for the largest package for €11.99 per month can use Netflix on up to four devices at the same time and gain access to HD and Ultra HD content. The first month is free of charge for all users. Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) Related Filed Under:  Editor's Choice ,  IPTV ,  Newsline ,  On Demand/VOD ,  OTT ,  Platforms   Tagged With:  app ,  Deutsche Telekom ,  Entertain ,  Germany ,  IPTV ,  launch ,  Netflix ,  subscription  Edited:  September 17, 2014   11:25  
Magine Pro White Paper: Key trends across online video consumer behaviour Over the last 12 months, we’ve seen an unprecedented acceleration of growth in streaming services on the supply side, as well as an increase in cord-cutting and self-bundling on the demand side, creating considerable opportunities in which niche players can effectively capture audiences. Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
White Paper: The Seven Pillars of Super-Aggregation Your pay-TV customers are likely juggling multiple entertainment services – and managing the complex discovery and billing challenges that come with them. In this white paper, find out how to harness the power of super-aggregation to improve their experience and reduce churn while maximizing the value of your video service. Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)