##LINK: https://www.telekom.com/en/media/media-information/archive/netflix-and-deutsche-telekom-strike-international-partnership-509200
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: Netflix and Deutsche Telekom strike international partnership | Deutsche Telekom
##METHOD: article 6



 
 
 
 Media 
 11‑21‑2017   Verena Fulde 
 0 Comments   
 Netflix and Deutsche Telekom strike international partnership 
 
 
 
 Share 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The icons are missing? – Try disabling your ad-blocker. 
 
 
 
 Share 
 
  Two clicks for more data privacy: click here to activate the button and send your recommendation. Data will be transfered as soon as the activation occurs. 
   
 Print 
 
 Read out 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 Netflix and Deutsche Telekom have announced an international partnership enabling all Deutsche Telekom subsidiaries to benefit from Deutsche Telekom’s partnership with Netflix. With this agreement, Deutsche Telekom brings their customers the globally popular and exclusive content of Netflix to all their screens. “We want to ensure the best content offering and TV experience for our customers and will work with Netflix to further expand our great partnership”, noted Thomas Kicker, Senior Vice President Group Partnering of Deutsche Telekom. So far, Telekom customers in Germany, Poland and the Netherlands have already benefited from the cooperation. Maria Ferreras, VP Business Development EMEA, said: “This partnership builds on our already strong relationship with Deutsche Telekom. We are thrilled to open a new world of exclusive and critically-acclaimed entertainment for millions of Deutsche Telekom’s TV and Mobile customers in Europe.” Since October 2017 EntertainTV customers in Germany can easily access the Netflix content in 4K on the EntertainTV Set-Top-Box. In Poland, Netflix is available as part of T-Mobile offers since 2016. Most recently the parties launched a new offer where T-Mobile Netherlands combined its strong Unlimited data offer with a Netflix promotion giving customers a six months gift offer for the Netflix Service. Additionally Deutsche Telekom customers in Germany, Poland, Croatia, Greece and Romania can truly enjoy unlimited streaming of Netflix over mobile networks with the participation of Netflix in the respective video zero rating offers (StreamOn) providing Deutsche Telekom customers the ultimate mobile video experience. About Deutsche Telekom :  Companyprofile About Netflix:  Netflix is the world's leading internet entertainment service with over 109 million members in over 190 countries enjoying more than 125 million hours of TV shows and movies per day, including original series, documentaries and feature films. Members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments.   
 
 
