##LINK: https://search.proquest.com/openview/b71f31b5a1c2c79592750dd61258c73f/1%3Fpq-origsite%3Dgscholar%26cbl%3D616298
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Net Neutrality: International Benchmark: How Are Telcos, Content Providers and Regulators Positioning Themselves - ProQuest
##METHOD: article 1



 Abstract/Details Abstract Translate Undo Translation  From Select language... Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Czech Danish English Finnish French German  Hebrew Indonesian Italian Japanese Korean Polish Portuguese Russian Spanish Swedish Turkish To English Translate Translation in progress...  [[missing key: loadingAnimation]] The full text may take 40-120 seconds to translate; larger documents may take longer. Cancel 
OverlayEnd The different approaches to Net neutrality implemented in Europe and the US have made it possible to reach a certain consensus on the need for transparency (regarding traffic management measures), non-discrimination and open access. Beyond considerations rooted purely in principle (concerning pluralism, freedom of expression and non-discrimination), Net neutrality debates continue to reveal several major trouble spots in the technical-economic balance needed on the Internet, not only to finance the networks but also to sustain innovation in online services. Content and service providers may pay for the traffic they generate through the purchase of IP transit, or CDN services whose purpose is to improve the quality of service. But these are very competitive markets, which means ever shrinking prices and strong consolidation. This is even accelerated by telcos themselves, with Verizon buying EdgeCast or KDDI buying CDNetworks. So the revenue generated upstream is often meagre compared to the amount of traffic being handled. You have requested "on-the-fly" machine translation of selected content from our databases. This functionality is provided solely for your convenience and is in no way intended to replace human translation.  Show full disclaimer Neither ProQuest nor its licensors make any representations or warranties with respect to the translations. The translations are automatically generated "AS IS" and "AS AVAILABLE" and are not retained in our systems. PROQUEST AND ITS LICENSORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES FOR AVAILABILITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, COMPLETENESS, NON-INFRINGMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Your use of the translations is subject to all use restrictions contained in your Electronic Products License Agreement and by using the translation functionality you agree to forgo any and all claims against ProQuest or its licensors for your use of the translation functionality and any output derived there from.  Hide full disclaimer
 
Longer documents can take a while to translate. Rather than keep you waiting, we have only translated the first few paragraphs. Click the button below if you want to translate the rest of the document.
 Translate All Details Subject  Internet access ; Telephone companies ; Innovations ; Internet service providers ; Federal regulation ; Customer services ; Quality of service ; Business models Business indexing term  
Subject: Customer services ; Quality of service ; Business models Location  United States--US Classification  9190: United States 8330: Broadcasting & telecommunications industry 5320: Quality control 8331: Internet services industry 4310: Regulation Title  Net Neutrality: International Benchmark: How Are Telcos, Content Providers and Regulators Positioning Themselves Author  Bonneau, Vincent Publication title  Communications & Strategies ;  Montpellier Issue  95 Pages  139-143,150 Number of pages  6 Publication year  2014 Publication date  Third Quarter 2014 Section  Public Policies Publisher  Institut de l'Audiovisuel et de Telecommunications en Europe (IDATE) Place of publication  Montpellier Country of publication  France,  Montpellier Publication subject  Communications ISSN  11578637 e-ISSN  21160341 Source type  Scholarly Journals Language of publication  English Document type  Feature Document feature  Diagrams;  Tables ProQuest document ID  1613163035 Document URL  https://www.proquest.com/scholarly-journals/net-neutrality-international-benchmark-how-are/docview/1613163035/se-2?accountid=10207 Copyright  Copyright Institut de l'Audiovisuel et de Telecommunications en Europe (IDATE) Third Quarter 2014 Last updated  2020-11-17 Database  Social Science Premium Collection 
