##LINK: https://www.w3.org/2005/12/smil-testimonial
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Testimonials for SMIL 2.1 Recommendation
##METHOD: paragraphs

These testimonials are in support of SMIL
2.1 as a W3C Recommendation.
In English: 
ACCESS Co., Ltd. | CWI | INRIA | KDDI R&D Laboratories
Incorporated | NRCD Research Institute
日本語: 
株式会社ACCESS | 株式会社KDDI研究所
As a co-editor of the SMIL 2.1
  specification, ACCESS is very pleased that SMIL 2.1 has been successfully
  reviewed. ACCESS has long been an active supporter of open Internet
  standards, and we will continue to contribute to leading global standards
  organizations like W3C to ensure the development of future open standards.
  SMIL is an excellent mobile multimedia technology that enables exciting new
  mobile services. Certainly for 3G the combination of SMIL 2.1 and full
  Internet browsing will play a key role in delivering advanced, media-rich
  mobile services. ACCESS has already shipped its own NetFront SMIL Player to
  more than 10 million mobile phones and we plan to fully support SMIL
  2.1.
CWI is proud to have contributed to SMIL 2.1. We
  see the development of the new Mobile and Extended Mobile SMIL profiles as
  being a tangible answer to the growing need to align media integration with
  the capabilities of modern mobile delivery platforms. We are also pleased
  to see the layout and parameter-passing mechanisms of SMIL 2.1 standardized
  in a constructive way: this should help the development of inter-operable
  media CODECS on a wide range of target devices. CWI's multi-platform
  implementation of the new features and profiles of SMIL 2.1 in the Ambulant
  Player (see: ambulantPlayer.org) have demonstrated the viability of the new
  specification.
INRIA welcomes the release of SMIL 2.1 as a
  W3C Recommendation. Multimedia and telecommunications are high priority
  application domains among research directions at INRIA. With this new
  version, we believe that SMIL 2.1 will have a greater impact on mobile
  multimedia applications such as multimedia messaging and mobile streaming
  services. In particular, the new features will allow SMIL 2.1 to target a
  wider range of Web clients with different capabilities. INRIA is proud of
  its contribution to SMIL 2.1 as an open standard that will enable new
  interoperable applications for the Web and the mobile world.
KDDI, as a member of the W3C Synchronized
  Multimedia working group, is pleased to see that the SMIL 2.1 specification
  has been approved as a W3C Recommendation. Our world-leading 3G mobile
  content delivery service "EZ Channel" based on SMIL 2.0 Basic is now
  increasingly fascinating our customers. The newly created SMIL 2.1 Mobile
  profiles can significantly enrich mobile multimedia contents and provide
  powerful interactivity on mobile devices. We expect that the SMIL 2.1 will
  become one of the key technologies in the 3G mobile applications.
National Rehabilitation Center for Persons with
  Disabilities Research Institute is very pleased that SMIL 2.1 has been
  approved as W3C Recommendation because of its excellent accessibility
  features:
SMIL 2.1 仕様の co-editor
  として、ACCESS は SMIL 2.1 が W3C
  勧告として標準化されたことを大変嬉しく思います。ACCESS
  は以前からインターネット標準規格化へ取り組んでまいりましたが、今後も将来のオープンスタンダードの開発を推進する
  W3C
  のような代表的な標準化団体に向けて、国際標準化に一層貢献を続けてまいります。SMIL
  は画期的な新しいモバイルサービスを実現するマルチメディアテクノロジです。3G
  において、SMIL 2.1
  とフルインターネットブラウジングの連携は、先進的でリッチメディアなモバイルサービスを提供する際に確実に重要な役割を果たすでしょう。ACCESS
  は既に同社の NetFront SMIL Player
  を1000万台以上の携帯電話に出荷しており、今後 SMIL 2.1
  をサポートしてまいります。
KDDI株式会社は、W3C Synchronized
  Multimedia 作業グループのメンバーとして、SMIL 2.1 仕様が
  W3C
  勧告として公開されたことを心より歓迎します。当社は世界に先駆け、SMIL
  2.0 Basic
  プロファイルを基本とした第3世代携帯電話向けのコンテンツ配信サービス「EZチャンネル」を提供し、好評を博しています。SMIL
  2.1
  で新しく規定された携帯端末向けプロファイルは、モバイルマルチメディアコンテンツの表現力を大幅に向上させると共に、携帯端末上での強力な対話性を提供します。我々は、SMIL
  2.1
  が第3世代携帯電話アプリケーションでの重要な要素技術の一つとなることを期待しています。
The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by developing
common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its interoperability.
It is an international industry consortium jointly run by the MIT Computer Science and Artificial
Intelligence Laboratory (MIT CSAIL) in the USA, the European Research Consortium for Informatics and
Mathematics (ERCIM) headquartered in France and Keio University in Japan. Services provided
by the Consortium include: a repository of information about the World Wide
Web for developers and users, and various prototype and sample applications
to demonstrate use of new technology. To date, nearly 400 organizations are
Members of the Consortium. For more
information see http://www.w3.org/