##LINK: https://www.de-cix.net/en/locations/united-states/customer-advisory-board
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: DE-CIX North America Customer Advisory Board
##METHOD: paragraphs

While the Customer Advisory Board does not have decision-making authority, its members communicate with the DE-CIX management team and help guide the overall direction of DE-CIX in North America.
Scott K. Brown
Scott K. Brown is President of Pixel Factory, Inc., a data center company delivering colocation, cloud connectivity and internet connectivity with a fully redundant network throughout all edge, core, and distribution layers. Brown and his team leverage extensive experience in tasks such as managing large volumes of images for in-house marketing departments and universities to develop custom solutions, manage image libraries and host entire catalogs of images. 
Phillip Koblence
Phillip is Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer of New York Internet – NYI. Since 1996, he has worked directly with NYI customers to create customized, fully managed, infrastructure solutions – built to suit – to help grow their businesses. Phil strongly believes business is about people, not hardware, and has ingrained that into every aspect of NYI. Under his leadership, NYI has grown from a single data presence to multiple Tier 3 facilities throughout the New York City and surrounding area. NYI's customer roster spans industries including media, healthcare, finance, technology, law and architecture. Phil has spoken at a variety of local technology industry events and been profiled by Data Center Knowledge, TheWHIR, MSPMentor, and NJ BIZ. Phil enjoys traveling and spending time with his family. He is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, with an engineering degree.
Steven Schecter (Chairman)
Steven is a Sr. Manager of Network Architecture at Akamai Technolgies Inc., where he oversees the Americas. Over the past 16 years, Steven has held engineering and architecture roles at Cablevision, Net Access, AboveNet, and Globix. He has extensive experience in ISP/access, Data Center, Eyeball networks, and CDNs. Prior to joining Akamai, Steven spent the past 6 years at Cablevision as a Senior Engineer within their strategy and technology (Office of the CTO) group. Steven also currently serves on the NANOG program committee and DRT’s OIX advisory board and is an active OIX member.
Carl Williams
Carl is a Network Engineer at Linode. His career began with a Master of Science in Computer Science back in the late 1980s when the Internet was just beginning to expand. Upon receiving his degree, he joined the Sun Microsystems software development team engineering TCP/IP suite. Following the time at Sun Microsystems, his professional life took a turn toward telecommunications when he worked with KDDI in Tokyo and Comcast in Philadelphia. At these companies, he was able to leverage his leadership skills and software engineering background to focus on network engineering and Internet strategies, helping KDDI and Comcast to further develop their business model to meet customer needs for an open Internet. While at these companies, he gained extensive knowledge in next-gen network architecture and strategic design, allowing him to transition to his role as Network Engineer at Linode and assist in the construction of a well-established, globally interconnected cloud with PoPs in North American, European and Asia Pacific markets. 
DE-CIX provides premium network interconnection services and operates several carrier and data center-neutral Internet Exchanges internationally.