##LINK: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/internet/bharti-softbank-yahoo-japan-to-jointly-develop-mobile-internet-portal/articleshow/14269068.cms
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: GSMA: Bharti Softbank, Yahoo Japan to jointly develop mobile internet portal - The Economic Times
##METHOD: article 1


ET Bureau KOLKATA: Bharti  Softbank  and  Yahoo Japan Corp , the leading internet portal in Japan, on Tuesday announced a partnership to develop a  mobile internet portal  for the Indian mobile market. Both companies have floated a new JV company, BSY Pte Ltd.
 
  Bharti Softbank is a 50:50 JV between  Bharti Enterprises  and Softbank Corp.
 
  While BSB was launched last October to focus on mobile internet in India, BSY Pte. Ltd is a step forward in this partnership and aims to combine Bharti's deep understanding of the Indian market with the Softbank group's rich experience in the internet portal space.
 
  Kavin Bharti Mittal, head (strategy & new product development) at BSB, said, ""We are delighted to partner Yahoo! Japan, who have a proven track record in this area. BSY, which is BSB's second venture, will be an important piece in our strategy to drive the uptake of mobile internet and  data services .""
 
  Madhu Nori, who is BSB's India operations head, claimed that as the local mobile market gravitates towards data-led services, rich content is an area that will offer exciting growth prospects. ""
 
  ""Yahoo! Japan's understanding of technology and analytics in this domain will be a big plus for this partnership, through which we aim to offer exciting content and services to customers in India. We are looking forward to working with all mobile operators and promote an  open internet culture  on mobile,"" said Nori
 
  Yahoo! Japan, which is Japan's numero uno internet portal, has an 84% market-share. The company's success has driven users graduating from simple VAS to using mobile phones to access the internet.
 
  Shin Murakami, chief mobile officer of Yahoo! Japan said: ""Japan's mobile industry has set several global benchmarks in terms of technology and services and Yahoo! Japan has led the growth of mobile-internet business as part of the Softbank group. We are pleased with the partnership with BSB for the Indian market, where the coming years will see explosive growth of data usage on mobile. Through this partnership we hope to contribute to enhance people's lives through mobile internet.""
 
  India is the world's second largest mobile market in the world with over 900 million mobile subscribers. A vast youth population and a fast growing economy is expected to drive data usage on mobile with the proliferation of 3G and 4G services.
 
  According to  GSMA , India will become the second largest mobile broadband market globally within the next four years with 367 million mobile broadband connections by 2016.
 
 Read More News on GSMA data services mobile internet portal open internet culture Yahoo Japan Corp Bharti Enterprises Softbank Stay on top of  technology  and  startup news  that matters.  Subscribe  to our daily newsletter for the latest and must-read tech news, delivered straight to your inbox. ETPrime stories of the day Investing Living in the momentum: Here’s what is attracting almost everyone to this investing style 9 mins read Energy How Fukushima, Japan’s nuclear-disaster zone, is emerging as a clean-power leader 7 mins read Under the lens GDR scam: Did Sujana Group, owned by a BJP Rajya Sabha MP, get its hands dirty? 8 mins read Subscribe to  ETPrime