##LINK: http://internet3.sourceforge.net/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Internet3: P2P Net Neutrality
##METHOD: paragraphs

Introduction
                Internet3 is the creation of a distributed peer-to-peer (P2P)
                platform using open source web technology for the acquisition,
                archival and delivery of Internet content to prevent censorship
                and to address net neutrality issues. It is an answer to the
                lack of information freedom in the proposed Internet2.
It was conceived to address concerns over Web sites such as
                Google, YouTube, and Digg tinkering with rankings, as well as
                government and Internet Service Providers censoring political
                Web content, such as Alex Jones PrisonPlanet.com and
                Infowars.com.
Internet3 includes a set of technologies which layers a bit
                torrent client underneath Web browsers and Web servers.
Features
Decentralized Search Engine, User-Controlled Content
                Decentralized Web Hosting, Host-Controlled Content
                Seamless Torrent Web Browser
                Web Interface to Bit Torrents
                Searchable, Tagged Content
                Ranked Content
                Mirrored Content from P2P Networks
                Archived Content from P2P Networks
                RSS Feeds, Web Sites, Podcasts, Videos, Audio
Benefits
Download Censored Content from Peers
                Reduced Web Hosting Costs
                Easy Mirroring
                Easy Hosting of Search Engine
Open Source
                Implemented using available open source technologies and made open
                source for easy extension.
Architecture
                Initial set of technologies use an open source P2P client and Web
                server written in Python.
The Web browser plug-in can either be written as an actual
                plug-in, like a Google search bar, or integrated as a Javascriptlet
                or Javascript that will be brought up by the user with a bookmark
                to tag a Web site or while browsing an a torrented Internet3 Web
                server.
The following figure represents the overall architecture or
                technology framework.
Note that while browing an Internet3 Web server, the Internet3
                client will download torrented content through their own Web
                server. Otherwise, a regular Web browser will download untorrented
                content.
See the SourceForge documents link for more architecture
                information.