##LINK: http://hackeducation.com/2017/12/15/weekly-news
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Hack Education Weekly News
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
 Hack Education Weekly News 
 
 
 Audrey Watters 
              on
               15 Dec 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  read
           
 
 (National) Education Politics  
 
 RIP Net Neutrality . Thoughts on how this might effect education  from Inside Higher Ed ,  from NPR ,  from Internet2  (via Bryan Alexander),  from The Washington Post , and  from Edsurge . 
 Not Net Neutrality, but another potential  FCC  move – ending the  E-Rate program .  Via Pacific Standard : “Why Is the FCC Considering Cutting Broadband Access for Students?” 
 The latest on the  GOP tax bill ,  from The Washington Post : “Proposed  tax for graduate students  killed,  student loan interest deduction  saved in congressional bill.” More on the bill  via Inside Higher Ed . Thoughts on how this will affect higher ed  from Moody’s .  A NYT op-ed from Nora Gordon  looks at how the bill will harm poor schools. 
 Mother Jones on the  PROSPER Act : “Republicans Are Trying to Roll Back Rules That Stopped  For-Profit Colleges  From Exploiting Students.”  
 “A new analysis from the Center for American Progress found more than two dozen  minority-serving institutions  would fail a graduation rate requirement for funding in the proposed House update to the  Higher Education Act ,”  Inside Higher Ed reports . 
 Via Education Week : “President Donald Trump has tapped  Frank Brogan , who served as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush’s lieutenant governor, as assistant secretary of elementary and secondary education, the top post at the  Education Department  overseeing K–12 policy.” 
 Via The Wall Street Journal : “Trump  Job Cuts at Education Department  Worry Civil-Rights Advocates.” 
 Politico details  where the  Dick and Betsy DeVos Family Foundation  made its donations. 
 Via NPR : “ France  Moves To  Ban Students From Using Cellphones In Schools .” 
 Via Inside Higher Ed : “An agreement reached in the first phase of  Brexit  negotiations would allow European citizens living in the United Kingdom as of the date it withdraws from the E.U. to retain their residency rights even if they leave the U.K. for up to five years. It would also allow the U.K. to continue to participate in E.U. science and student exchange programs through the end of the current budget cycle in 2020.” 
 (State and Local) Education Politics  
 
 Via the Tampa Bay Times : “ Florida  lawmakers want  stronger college free speech rules  amid First Amendment flareups.” But sure, sure, lefty college students are the real threat to free speech. 
 Via Fortune : “ Apple  to Bring  Coding Education  to  Chicago Public Schools .” 
 Elsewhere in  CPS : “ Ronald Marmer  resigned as the top attorney for the Chicago Public Schools on Tuesday, a week after an internal report cited him for an ethics violation in an investigation that cost  CPS CEO Forrest Claypool  his job,”  The Chicago Sun Times reports . More on Claypool’s resignation  from WaPo’s Valerie Strauss . 
 Via Techcrunch : “ New York City  moves to establish  algorithm-monitoring task force .”  
 Immigration and Education  
 
 “Congress must act on the ‘ dreamers ’”  Tim Cook  and  Charles Koch  write in a joint op-ed in The Washington Post . Yes, you read that byline correctly. 
 Education in the Courts  
 
 “Four Democratic  attorneys general  filed separate lawsuits Thursday seeking to compel Education Secretary  Betsy DeVos  to grant  debt relief  to students defrauded by  for-profit colleges ,”  Inside Higher Ed reports . 
 Via The Washington Post : “ Betsy DeVos  hit with two  lawsuits  in one day over  backlog of student debt relief claims .” 
 Via Inside Higher Ed : “Stanton Glantz, a professor at the medical school at the  University of California, San Francisco , and a tobacco researcher, has been accused of  sexual harassment  in a new lawsuit filed with the San Francisco Superior Court.” 
 Via The Chronicle of Higher Education : “In Reversal, College Adviser Who Was Grabbed by Far-Right Speaker Is Criminally Charged.” This stems from a protest at the  University of Connecticut . 
 Via Inside Higher Ed : “A federal jury on Monday rejected a lawsuit by a prominent conspiracy theorist who claimed  Florida Atlantic University  fired him for his views, and in doing so violated his  First Amendment rights .” 
 The Business of Student Loans  
 
 Via Inside Higher Ed : “The U.S. Department of Education this week released new federal loan data showing that  4.6 million student loan borrowers were in default  as of Sept. 30, an increase from the 2.2 million who were in default four years earlier. Roughly 298,000 borrowers entered into default during the quarter that ended in September, the department said, with 274,000 defaulting for the first time.” 
 With  Brown University  joining the list,  Money notes that  “All These Colleges Have Now Gone ‘ Loan-Free ’ to Help Keep Students Out of Debt.” 
 Via The Economic Times : “Startups in  student-lending sector  see dropouts, but some score too.” I’ll be adding student loan company  Quiklo  to the ed-tech dead pool. 
 More legal wrangling on loans in the “courts” section above. More funding and acquisitions of bootcamps in the venture capital section below. 
 The “New” For-Profit Higher Ed  
 
 The  McNally Smith College of Music , a for-profit music college, will  close its doors . 
 Via The Times Higher Education : “For-profit claims ‘learning gain’ victory over universities.” That’s “elite” education startup  The Minerva Project , which has discovered if you are very exclusive with who you admit to your program, you can boast that your students perform very well on standardized tests. It’s an amazing amazing breakthrough. 
 Kaplan Inc  has agreed to  acquire  the  College for Financial Planning  from  Apollo Education Group . (Looks like Kaplan Inc isn’t getting out of for-profit higher ed altogether, even with the sale of Kaplan University to Purdue.) 
 More on for-profits in the “politics” section at the top. 
 Meanwhile on Campus…  
 
 “How SCAD sells a dream,”  via The Atlantic Journal Constitution . SCAD is the  Savannah College of Art and Design , and wow. This story. 
 Via The Huffington Post : “Inside The  Voucher Schools That Teach L. Ron Hubbard , But Say They’re Not Scientologist.” 
 Via CJR : “‘This is unprecedented’: Public colleges limiting  journalist access .” 
 Via The Chronicle of Higher Education : “‘A Complete Culture of Sexualization’:  1,600 Stories of Harassment in Higher Ed .” 
 Via The Chronicle of Higher Education : “ Central Washington U . Places Professor – and State Lawmaker – on Leave Amid Allegations.” That’s Matt Manweller, and the allegations involve  sexual harassment  of students. 
 Via The Chronicle of Higher Education : “How  Sexual-Harassment Charges  at  U. of Rochester  Spiraled Out of Control.” 
 “What Happened to These  15 Accused Harassers ?”  asks The Chronicle of Higher Education . 
 Via Pacific Standard : “The  Thomas Fire  Is Worsening the  Housing Crisis for Vulnerable Students .” 
 The  University of Wisconsin at Madison  plans to  close 22 libraries  and create six “hubs” in their stead,  says The Wisconsin State Journal .  
 Via The Hechinger Report : “ The community college ‘segregation machine’ .” 
 Via Inside Higher Ed : “ Hiram College , hoping to stay financially and academically competitive, launches overhaul and floats idea – on hold for now – of ending some tenure protections.” 
 Via ABC News : “‘Exponential’ increase in  school shooting drills  since  Sandy Hook .” 
 Via The Washington Post : “ Virginia  student says he was thrown out of class for  not saying the pledge .” 
 This WSJ commentary is bonkers . “Lorde of the Flies: Why College Students Reject Reason.” Apparently it’s all  Audre Lorde ’s fault, because of course it is. 
 “ After School Special ” –  photos from Andre Wagner  and text by Rembert Browne. 
 Accreditations and Certifications and Competencies  
 
 Via Campus Technology : “Digital credentials company  Credly  is adopting the Credential Transparency Description Language (CTDL), a common markup language designed to improve discoverability of certifications, badges and other verified achievements. CTDL is a project of  Credential Engine , a nonprofit focused on improving transparency in the credentialing marketplace.” (Is this different from the Mozilla stuff?) 
 WonkHE on “ accelerated degrees .” 
 Testing  
 
 Via The Chronicle of Higher Education : “ ACT  and  College Board  to Offer Free Test-Score Reports for Needy Students.” 
 Russia  beat the  US  on an international reading test . 
 Go, School Sports Team!  
 
 Via ESPN : “How a midlevel school became  The University of Adidas at Louisville .” 
 From the HR Department  
 
 Pearson  has  added   Snap  chairman Michael Lynton to its board of directors.  
 Via The Chronicle of Higher Education : “ Private Colleges Had 58 Millionaire Presidents in 2015 .” 
 The Business of Job Training  
 
 Via NPR : “In Effort To Court Drivers,  Lyft  Offering  Education Discounts .” It’s a partnership with  Guild Education . More  via Techcrunch . 
 MOOCs are out.  Bootcamps  are in. Or something .  
 This Week in Betteridge’s Law of Headlines  
 
 “ Is Alison The Answer To The World’s Education Needs? ”  asks Forbes . 
 “ Did U.S. Performance on PISA Decline Because of Common Core? ”  asks Diane Ravitch . 
 “ Would You Ask Alexa for Parenting Tips for Your Toddlers? ”  asks Edsurge . 
 (Reminder: according to  Betteridge’s Law of Headlines , “Any headline that ends in a question mark can be answered by the word no.”) 
 Upgrades and Downgrades  
 
 “How a Dorm Room  Minecraft  Scam Brought Down the Internet”  via Wired . 
 Via Buzzfeed : “ YouTubers  Made Hundreds Of Thousands Off Of Bizarre And Disturbing Child Content.” 
 Guessing someone’s on the hunt for venture capital as there were  stories  in a  couple of publications  this week about former MIT dean Christine Ortiz’s new startup:  Station1 . It’s a new kind of university or something. 
 “​Chromageddon Comedown: Educators Are Wary,”  says Edsurge , “After Thousands of Google Devices Fail.” Yay.  Chromebooks . 
 Storify  is shutting down . 
 Via Mindwires Consulting’s Phil Hill : “ Cengage Unlimited  – Marketing ploy or significant change in strategy?” 
 Inside Higher Ed on  Knewton ’s “pivot.” 
 Bryan Alexander, who like me relies in part on support through  Patreon ,  writes about the changes at the site : “Patreon reverses itself; what next?” 
 From the press release : “ Macmillan Learning  Offers Educators Support for Open Education Resources via the Intellus Platform.” Because “open.” 
 “Refactoring  media literacy  for the networked age” –  Mike Caulfield makes a prediction for journalism in the new year . 
 Prison tech  is not ed-tech except when it is. So it’s something to watch.  Via The Guardian : “The end of American prison visits: jails end face-to-face contact – and families suffer.” 
 Robots and Other Ed-Tech SF  
 
 “ Robots will replace teachers by 2027 ,”  Futurism predicts . 
 “ When the Robots Come for Our Jobs, They’ll Spare the Teachers ,”  Edsurge tries to reassure its readers . 
 “3 Necessary Skills for Educators in the Era of  A.I. ”  according to Getting Smart . The skill of using a number in your headline to attract “clicks” did not make the list, surprisingly.  
 Via Education Week : “Preventing an  Artificial-Intelligence Fueled Dystopia , One Student at a Time.” 
 “How an  Artificially Intelligent Virtual Assistant  Helps Students Navigate the Road to College”  by Lindsay Page and Hunter Gehlbach . 
 Robots are coming for your children . 
 “Why these friendly robots can’t be good friends to our kids,”  Sherry Turkle  argues . 
 (Venture) Philanthropy and the Business of Ed Reform  
 
 Via International Business Times : “ Charles Koch  Gave $50 Million To Higher Ed In 2016. What Did He Buy?” 
 “More personal means more equitable and just,”  according to Jim Shelton , the head of  CZI ’s education efforts. It’s not dogma, he says. It’s science. Riiiight. 
 Venture Capital and the Business of Ed-Tech  
 
 GEMS Education , a private school chain, has secured a  $1.25 billion loan  from Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East, Noor Bank, MashreqBank, and Emirates NBD Capital. 
 The coding bootcamp chain  Digital House  has raised  $20 million  from Omidyar Network, Kaszek Ventures, Endeavor Catalyst, Marcos Galperin, The Rise Fund, and Martin Migoya. 
 Flintobox  has raised  $7 million  in a Series A round from Lightbox. The company, which sells subscriptions to boxes full of kids’ activitites, has raised  $7.33 million  total.  
 Summer camp provider  Gakko  has raised  $6.5 million  from Masada Kobayashi and other investors. It’s raised $7.5 million total. 
 Illuminate Education  has  acquired  visualization tool  eduCLIMBER . 
 Scientific Learning Corp  has  acquired   BrainMaps . 
 The coding bootcamp  Thinkful  has  acquired  the  Viking Code School . 
 There’s also a for-profit acquisition in the for-profit section above. 
 Privacy, Surveillance, and Information Security  
 
 For your “Netflix for education files”: 
 I liked this tweet because it's good to be reminded that huge unaccountable companies use our personal data to dunk on us both literally and figuratively.  https://t.co/4IXFUuEHsT — Kevin Roose (@kevinroose)  December 11, 2017 
 
 “ What Would You Pay to Keep Your Digital Footprint 100% Private? ”  asks Harvard Business Review  – an indication, no doubt, about how all this data collection is simply going to expand inequalities. How much can you afford? 
 “ Big data could solve the college-dropout problem ,”  says The Washington Post . No. No it couldn’t. 
 The way in which schools describe their  security efforts  – cameras and the like – is pretty awful. 
 Via Mail & Guardian : “ Big Brother  set to watch each pupil.” 
 “Don’t Give Kids Holiday Gifts That Can  Spy  on Them,”  says an NYT op-ed by Ashley Boyd . 
 Research, “Research,” and Reports  
 
 “New public opinion data suggest that despite significant concerns about prices, most Americans (and many Republicans) believe a  postsecondary education  is essential,”  Inside Higher Ed reports . 
 Via Inside Higher Ed : “ Higher Ed Inflation  Hits Highest Level Since 2008.” 
 “ America’s teachers don’t move out of state much . That could be bad for students,”  writes Chalkbeat’s Matt Barnum . 
 “Looking for SEL programs? New RAND report has answers,”  says Education Dive .  The report : “ Social and Emotional Learning  Interventions Under the Every Student Succeeds Act.” 
 Via EdWeek’s Market Brief : “ 40 Most Popular Ed-Tech Tools in K–12  Identified in New Analysis.” 
 Via Futurism : “ Global E-Waste  Increased by Eight Percent since 2014.” 
 Via The 74 : “ Middle Schoolers Without Broadband Access  Feel Set Up for Failure, New Survey Finds.” The survey comes from the  Verizon Foundation , so that’s just rich. 
 Recent Genius grant recipient  Nikole Hannah-Jones and The Atlantic’’s Jeffrey Goldberg talk  about  segregation ,  schooling , and the  hypocrisy of “progressive” white people . 
 Icon credits:  The Noun Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 Written by 
 
 
 Audrey Watters 
 
 Published  15 Dec 2017 
 
 
 
 Credits 
 
  2010-2020   ·    About the author 
 
 Header image credits 
 
 
 
 
