##LINK: https://www.arl.org/arl-terms/net-neutrality/page/9/
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Net Neutrality- Page 9 of 9 - Association of Research Libraries
##METHOD: article 1



 
 Net Neutrality - Page: 9   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comcast v. FCC – the Impact For Libraries and Net Neutrality 
 
			Comcast v. FCC full decision (PDF) On Tuesday, April 6, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit handed down a dramatic rejection of the Federal Communication Commission’s...			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Letter to Julius Genachowski re: Preserving the Open Internet, GN Docket No. 09-191; Broadband Industry Practices, WC Docket No. 07-52 (Mar. 1, 2010) 
 
			Letter from higher education organizations regarding preserving the open Internet.  lt-genachowski-open-internet-01mar10.pdf			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the Matter of Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices 
 
			Comments of the Association of Research Libraries, EDUCAUSE, Internet2, NYSERNet, and ACUTA in support of rulemaking to preserve the openness of the Internet.  comments-open-internet-broadband14jan10.pdf			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the Matter of Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices 
 
			Comments from ARL, ALA, and EDUCAUSE in support of rulemaking to preserve the openness of the Internet.  comments_fccpublicnotice_12oct10.pdf			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the Matter of Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices: Comments of the Open Internet Coalition 
 
			The Open Internet Coalition ("OIC") submits the following comments in response to the Federal Communications Commission's October 22, 2009, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ("NPRM" or "Notice"), FCC No. 09-93.  oic-nn-comments_final.pdf			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Letter to Julius Genachowski re: Open Internet (Oct. 21, 2009) 
 
			Letter expressing support for the recent announcement that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will begin a public proceeding that will ensure an open and nondiscriminatory Internet.  lt-pubint-nn-21oct09.pdf			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Prev   
 
 1   
 
 2   
 
 …   
 
 6   
 
 7   
 
 8   
 
 9 (current)   
 
 
 
