##LINK: https://educationdocbox.com/76608473-College_Life/Philippine-main-education-highway-towards-a-knowledge-based-economy.html
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy - PDF Free Download
##METHOD: paragraphs





                                                                Error: 

Transcription
1 
2 
3 Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy
4 
5 
6 
7 Foreword Foreword Fr. Bienvenido Nebres, SJ Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education T he major challenge facing the Philippines continues to be that of poverty. One of the sad realities of the past decades has been that our neighbors have made great strides in overcoming poverty, but our progress has been much slower. A key factor is education. The Nobel-Prize winning economist, Amartya Sen, says that, in his studies of countries that have made great progress on overcoming poverty, what stands out has been their focus on improving education, especially basic education. The New York Times headlined this in May 27, 2002: To Build a Country, Build a Schoolhouse. Amartya Sen says that poverty is, of course, a lack of resources. But the more fundamental poverty is a lack of capability. Capability comes above all from education and health. We might give money to a poor person, pero kung walang pinag-aralan o may TB, the money will soon be gone. Thus, the Presidential Task Force on Education has concentrated on building what we call The Main Education Highway, from pre-school through grade school and high school to post-secondary education. Our vision is to fulfill the dream of every Filipino family, a dream that drives parents to make immense sacrifices: to give their children a good education and thus assure them of a stable career and a better future. Our vision is to work together to build an educational system that gives the opportunity to all Filipino youth to discover and develop their gifts and potential and thus empower them to become productive and creative citizens. To Build a Country, Build a Schoolhouse. In turn, this stronger educational system will build our country. A strong educational system for international economic competitiveness has always been important. But in the Knowledge Economy of today, it is crucial and critical. No country can be competitive without a well-educated citizenry. A particular challenge to the Philippines is that we are in a region with some of the strongest educational systems in the world. In all international comparative tests, the top countries come from our region: Singapore, Japan, and Korea. Vietnam has been featured recently as a rising star and a major reason for this rise is their very strong educational system, which they maintained even during the wars with France i
8 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy and the United States. The First Biennial National Congress for Education provided a forum for the discussion of key result areas and action programs designed to facilitate the journey along the Main Education Highway. Simultaneous workshop discussions engaged education stakeholders from various regions and from all sectors - government, administrators and faculty from SUCs and private educational institutions, business groups and industry associations. The main themes of the conference were as follows: 1. Improving the quality of basic education, increasing student achievement, and improving retention rate towards a zero drop-out rate. 2. Improving teacher competencies and faculty development. 3. Harmonizing the technical, vocational and higher education systems. 4. Tightening higher education-industry linkage to achieve a better match between the requirements of industry and the skills / competencies acquired by students. 5. Upgrading and updating professional licensure examinations to respond to the continuing rapid changes in the practice of professions. 6. Management, regulatory and coordination issues of the three education agencies of government. 7. Financial assistance to private education and budgetary appropriations to SUCs We are undertaking this building up and strengthening of our educational system in a world of increasing competition and rising benchmarks. The Presidential Task Force for Education will thus give much attention to the development of Quality Assurance mechanisms and processes. Quality assurance today asks for a culture of continuing improvement and so we also need to develop more effective ways of monitoring, evaluating, and encouraging quality and competitiveness at all levels of education. In all the sessions and workshops of the First Biennial National Congress on Education, there was a recurring call to all sectors of Philippine society, to make the education of our youth their own concern and business. There is a saying that it takes a village to raise a child. It should not surprise us then that it will take all of us to provide quality education for our children and our youth. ii
9 Acknowledgement Acknowledgement The Presidential Task Force for Education T he Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress on Education with the theme The Philippine Main Education Highway towards a Knowledge-Based Economy, is a product of the collective efforts of numerous people, organizations and institutions from both the private and public sectors. It is a work anchored on the concerted and at times opposing perspectives that both shed light on which path the whole Philippine education sector should traverse towards a globally comparable education culture while infusing the fundamentals of a knowledge-based society to our human resource pool and its generations to come. The Presidential Task Force for Education (PTFE) wishes to thank Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo for her commitment to the Filipino people. Her vision of providing better opportunities for education for each and every Filipino has paved the way for the creation of the PTFE. The President s belief that the Task Force can dutifully undertake and fulfill her promise of reforming education and making the Filipino worker competent and comparable to world standards has inspired the Task Force to act in unison and be determined in overcoming obstacles. Being at the forefront of the education sector, all state universities and colleges, private higher education institutions, public and private secondary and primary education institutions have contributed much in crafting the various reform initiatives. Their first-hand share of experiences and expertise served as the foundation of majority of the recommendations. The PTFE was overwhelmed by the presence and support of over one thousand participants which included students, industry professionals, educationists and over three hundred public and private school teachers and faculty of education institutions - the real backbone of the education system, whose deep involvement during the Congress Workshops were very much felt. Each Workshop exceeded the number of the expected guests and thus resulted in a more dynamic and insightful exchange of ideas. The participation of education associations such as the Philippine Association of State Universities and Colleges (PASUC) and the Coordinating Council for Private Education Association (COCOPEA) has provided iii
10 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy tremendous support as they have always been ready to assist the government in its effort to reform the education system. The PTFE is likewise indebted to the industry sector leaders for their active participation and genuine interest to provide insights and innovative ideas in re-engineering the education system. It is also under the baton of the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI) and the Employers Confederation of the Philippines (ECOP) that made the various industry leaders enthusiastic in their involvement in shaping the country s workforce. Certainly, the improvement of the education sector relies mainly on the tripartite cooperation of the government, education institutions and industry sector. It is also through the efforts of the following government agencies that led to the success of the First Biennial National Congress on Education: Commission on Higher Education (CHED), Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA), Department of Education (DepEd), Professional Regulations Commission (PRC), National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), Department of Science and Technology (DOST), Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE), Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), the Committee on Basic Education and Culture of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Education of the Senate of the Philippines. The following offices in the Office of the President also lent a helpful hand to the PTFE Office of the Executive Secretary (OES), Presidential Management Staff (PMS), Office of the Deputy Executive Secretary for Finance, Human Resource and Management Department, among others. The full support of international and funding organizations has been vital specifically their invaluable inputs and attendance to the Education Congress. The United Nations Educational and Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO-UNACOM, the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and the World Bank (WB), the Colombo Plan Staff College and the Ambassadors representing Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, to name a few, have been long-time economic partners of the country. Our appreciation goes as well to the various Local Government Units (LGUs), civic organizations, communities and parents across the country for having been instrumental in raising the achievement level of students. This we consider a milestone in the realization of one of the goals of the PTFE in attaining a zero-dropout rate. The Congress Workshops was an opportunity for respected academicians and professionals coming from different parts of the country to iv
11 Acknowledgement have a fruitful discussions and exchange of intellectual view done in neutral fora. The patience and expertise of the Workshop Chairmen and Co-Chairmen and Rapporteurs were vital for making each Workshop conducive for active involvement in the discussions. Finally, the PTFE also recognizes the hard work, determination and dedication of the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education (OPAE) - Office of the President of the Philippines in providing all the necessary professional and technical assistance in carrying out a historic and momentous First Biennial National Education Congress. The directors and consultants and all the technical, administrative, and support staff, CHED and TESDA detailed personnel to the OPAE had contributed mainly for the smooth flow of the Congress. They have done much of the technical and leg work in order to guarantee the attainment of a fruitful and dynamic interaction relevant to the needs of the education sector. Indeed, the overall success of the Education Congress established a cornerstone for PTFE and the OPAE in pursuing their commitment to advocate educational reforms aimed at a more harmonized, responsive, and coherent Philippine education system, particularly for the development of credible Quality assurance mechanisms for continuous improvement. v
12 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy "In its broadest sense, learning can be defined as a process of progressive change from ignorance to knowledge, from inability to competence, and from indifference to understanding... In much the same manner, instruction-or education-can be defined as the means by which we systematize the situations, conditions, tasks materials, and opportunities by which learners acquire new or different ways of thinking, feeling, and doing." -Cameron Fincher vi
13 Table of Contents Table of Contents Foreword i Fr. Bienvenido Nebres, SJ Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education Acknowledgement iii Acronyms xiii Keynote Address xvii Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo Introduction: A Roadmap to the Philippines Future Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 1 Hon. Mona Dumlao-Valisno Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President PART I: Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress on Education Chapter 1: Presentation of Progress Reports Progress Report: Presidential Task Force for Education 47 Hon. Secretary Romulo L. Neri Chairman, Commission on Higher Education Co-Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education Presented by Hon. Mona Dumlao-Valisno Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President 1.2 Policies and Programs: Department of Education 53 Hon. Secretary Jesli A. Lapus Department of Education vii
14 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 1.3 Policies and Programs:Technical Education and Skills 63 Development Authority Hon. Secretary Augusto Syjuco Director General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority 1.4 Policies and Programs:Commission on Higher Education 67 Hon. Secretary Romulo L. Neri Chairman, Commission on Higher Education Co-Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education Presented by Hon. Commissioner Nona S. Ricafort Commission on Higher Education 1.5 The Updated Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan 71 ( ) for Education Hon. Margarita R. Songco Deputy Director General, National Economic Development Authority 1.6 Policies and Programs 75 Hon. Congressman Del R. De Guzman Chairperson, House Committee on Basic Education and Culture House of Representatives 1.7 Policies and Programs 79 Hon. Congresswoman Cynthia A. Villar Chairperson, House Committee on Higher and Technical Education House of Representatives 1.8 Vision for Education 87 Hon. Senator Allan Peter S. Cayetano, Chairperson, House Committee on Basic Education and Culture, House of Representatives Chapter 2: Proceedings of the Workshops Achieving full support of Stakeholders to Basic Education Improving Teacher Competencies and Faculty 99 Development 2.3 Harmonizing Technical Education and Higher Education Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and Industry 123 viii
15 Table of Contents 2.5 Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and 135 PRC to Meet the Needs of Industry 2.6 Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of 141 the Three Education Agencies of Government 2.7 Financial Assistance to Private Education and Budgetary 147 Appropriations to SUCs PART II: Post-Congress Agenda for the Next Steps The Presidential Task Force for Education Report: Executive Summary 253 Chapter Rolling Up Our Sleeves: Into Implementation Mode Chapter Fine Tuning The System: Major Points for Harmonization and Synchronization Chapter Agenda for Planning the Next Steps ix
16 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy List of Figures PART I Figure Title Page 1 The Philippine Education System 7 2 Budget allocated to Department of Education from Department Budget Allocation for A Harmonized Trifocalized Philippine Educational System 21 5 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Its Components and Feeders 23 6 The National Competency-Based Teacher Standard Structure Teacher Development Map Paradigm of BPA/P s collaboration with the various stakeholders The Engineering Graduates Program Industry-Academe linkage Program FEU Industry-Academe Partnership Beat the leakers Scheme 139 PART II Figure Title Page 13 Philippine Main Education Highway The Inter-agency Coordination for Education Framework The Philippine National Qualifications Framework 323 x
17 Acronyms List of Appendices Appendices for Part I Appendix 1 Agenda of the First Biennial National Congress on Education 163 Appendix 2 The Manila Declaration for Philippine Education 168 Appendix 3 Workshop Background Papers 169 a. Workshop 1: The Main Education Highway: Addressing Stakeholders Support for Basic Education by Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J. 170 b. Workshop 2: Technical Working Paper on Improving Teacher Competencies in the Basic Education Level & Faculty Development in Tertiary Education Level 179 c. Workshop 3: Tighter Coordination between the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and the Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA) 194 d. Workshop 4-A(1): Tighten Linkages between Higher Education and Industry 195 e. Workshop 4-A (2): Responding to the Global Demand for Filipino Talent by Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J. 202 f. Workshop 4-A (3): Industry-Academe Bridging Program Initiatives by Ma. Teresita P. Medado, Managing Director, The APC Center 208 g. Workshop 4-A (4): Driving Breakthrough Growth in the Philippine O&O Sector 219 h. Workshop 4-A (5): The Philippine Electronics Industry 222 i. Workshop 5: Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of the Three Education Agencies of Government 228 j. Workshop 6: Student Loan Program for the Philippines by Mona Dumlao Valisno, PhD and Reynaldo T. Peña, EdD 232 Appendix 4 Executive Orders a. Executive Order No. 273: Institutionalizing the System of National Coordination, Assessment, Planning and Monitoring of the entire Educational System 238 b. Executive Order No. 632: Amending Executive Order No. 273 (Series of 2000) and Mandating a Presidential Assistant to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System 240 c. Executive Order No. 652: Creating the Presidential Task Force to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System 241 d. Executive Order No. 652-A: Amending the Executive Order No. 652 (Series of 2007) by including the Chairman of the Professional Regulation Commission as a Member of the Presidential Task Force to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System 243 e. Executive Order No. 652-B: Amending further Executive Order No. 652 (Series of 2007) by including the Chairman of the Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations (COCOPEA) as the Representative from the Private Sector to the Presidential Task Force to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System 244 f. Executive Order No. 693: Mandating that Heads of Government Agencies having the rank and level of Department Secretary shall henceforth be addressed as Secretary of their Agencies 245 g. Executive Order No. 694: Enabling Higher Educational Institutions to Opt to Ladderize their Education Programs without need for issuance of permit from the Commission on Higher Education and the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority. 246 xi
18 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 5 Executive Summary of the Presidential Commission on 247 Educational Reform (PCER) Appendix 6 Highlights of the Congressional Commission on Education 249 Report (EDCOM) Appendices for Part II Appendix 1 Executive Orders a. Executive Order No. 705: Subjecting only Non-Accredited Private Schools for Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation b. Executive Order No. 705-A: Amending Executive Order No. 705, Series of 2008, by including the Higher Education Programs Accredited by the Four Other Accrediting Agencies not be Subjected to the Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation Process, and Creating a Coordinating Council for Accreditation Headed by the Commission on Higher Education c. Executive Order No. 729: Adding the Director General of the Technical Educational and Skills Development Authority, or a Duly Designated Representative, as Additional Member of the Teacher Education Council. d. Executive Order No. 730: Adding Two (2) Private Representatives to the Board of Advisers of the Commission on Higher Education Appendix 2 President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo s Speech During the 365 Presentation of the Budget on Education Appendix 3 President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo s Speech During the 367 Launching Ceremony of the New Student s Assistance Fund for Education for a Strong Republic (SAFE4SR) and Presentation of the Development Bank of the Philippines Scholars as Iskolars ni GMA Appendix 4 Madrasah Education Program Mainstreaming, Development & 369 Institutionalization as a Component of the National System of Basic Education Appendix 5 A Contributions-backed Educational Loan Program 375 Pictorial Highlights Photo Gallery for Part Photo Gallery for Part Directory of the PTFE and OPAE 379 xii
19 Acronyms Acronyms ADEPT - Advanced English Proficiency Training ARMM - Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao BESRA Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda BPA/P Business Processing Association, Philippines CHED Commission on Higher Education CICT Commission on Information and Communications Technology COCOPEA Coordinating Council of Private Educational Association COD Centers of Development COE Centers of Excellence CPE Continuing Professional Education CPU Central Philippines University DAT Division Achievement Test DepEd Department of Education DOLE Department of Labor and Employment DOST Department of Science and Technology DSWD Department of Social Welfare and Development ECOP Employers Confederation of the Philippines EDPITAF Educational Development Projects Implementing Task Force EFA Education for All ELF Educational Loan Fund EO Executive Order ETEEAP FAPE FDP GASTPE Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program Fund Assistance to Private Education Faculty Development Program Government Assistance to Students and Teachers in Private xiii
20 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Education GNP GSIS HEDP HEI INSET IQUAME KMS LGU MECS MOA NAT NCAE NCBTS NCCE NEAP NEDA NEETS NGO OFW OJT OPAE PACU PASUC PCCI PCER PCSPE PMAP PNQF PRC Gross National Product Government Service Insurance System Higher Education Development Project Higher Education Institution In-Service Training Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation Knowledge Management System Local Government Unit Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports Memorandum of Agreement National Achievement Test National Career Assessment Examination National Competency-Based Teacher Standards National Coordinating Council for Education National Education Assessment Program National Economic Development Authority National Educational Evaluation and Testing System Non-Government Organization Overseas Filipino Worker On-the-Job Training Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities Philippine Association of State Colleges and Universities Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry Philippine Commission on Educational Reform Presidential Commission to Survey Philippine Education People Management Association of the Philippines Philippine National Qualification Framework Professional Regulation Commission xiv
21 Acronyms PRESET Pre-Service Training PTFE Presidential Task Force for Education RDC Regional Development Council RLA Regional Legislative Assembly SAFE4SR Student Assistance for Financing Education for Strong Republic SBM School Based Management SNPLP Study Now Pay Later Plan SSS Social Security System STORE School to Office Response to Employment SUC s State Universities and Colleges SWAPEd Sector Wide Approach for Philippine Education TEACH Teacher Empowerment to Achieve Competence and Humaneness TEC Teacher-Education Council TEI Teacher-Education Institution TESDA Technical Education and Skills Development Authority TVET Technical-Vocational Education and Training U-ACT Universal Access to Competitiveness and Trade UCCO University Counseling and Career Office UPCAT University of the Philippines College Admission Test xv
22 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy xvi
23 Keynote Address Keynote Address Her Excellency Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo President of the Republic of the Philippines First Biennial National Congress on Education Tent City, Manila Hotel January 31, 2008 T hank you Secretary Lapus for your introduction. I'd like to greet everybody starting with Chairman of Basic Education in the House of Representatives, Congressman Del De Guzman. I visited their beautiful school in his district in Marikina, and how I would wish all schools in the country were like that; I'd like to greet also the Director General of TESDA and Chairman of TESDA, Secretary Buboy Syjuco and the Chancellor of Angeles University where I used to be a member of the board until my constitutional prohibition as vice president required me to resign, Chancellor Manny Angeles; I'd like to greet also our host this morning, Manila Hotel Chairman Don Emilio Yap; of course, I'd like to thank my Presidential Assistant for Education for her being the workhorse in putting this congress together, Undersecretary Mona Valisno; thanks to the diplomatic community for being here; thanks also to all the different sectors that were enumerated in Manny Angeles' welcome remarks, but I would also like to give a special, special welcome to our teachers! Because when you think of education, you think of teachers. Education is a core value of Philippine society and family life. The hardworking men and women of this country put their family first, don't we? And the best gift any family can give to a child, and the best gift any nation can give to its people is access to a good education. Education is the foundation of economic prosperity and individual liberty, justice and self-worth. For this reason, we issued Executive Order Number 652 creating the Presidential Task Force for Education to assess plan and monitor the entire educational system. We called this congress to discuss the progress report of the task force which will be presented after the coffee break. But, of course, it was not only the creation of the task force that started our attention to education. From the beginning of our administration, we have recognized education as the key to our next generation in order to get ahead and get a good job. And it is recognized all over the world, one of the goals of the United xvii
24 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Nations Millennium Development Goals is to achieve universal primary education by And we have internalized that even before we read the Millennium Development Goals. In the year 2001 school year, to increase the chances of children finishing school, the Department of Education minimized the cost of going to school by stopping the collection of miscellaneous fees on enrollment day. That single act brought almost a million children to school. Today, we have voluntary fees for the PTCA, the Red Cross and the Boy Scouts that have found their way back into the system. Yesterday, I discussed this with Secretary Jing Lapus and I said that because the Millennium Development Goals wants us to achieve universal primary education by 2015, let's not give any excuse for parents not to send their children to school at least up to fourth grade. So the fees PTCA, Red Cross, Boys and Girls Scouts -- should only be collected starting grade 5 so that there will be no reason to keep children away from primary school. In 2001, we also said in the State of the Nation Address that to reduce the time and money spent to actually travel to school, we will build classrooms starting in the far-flung barangays not served by nearby schools. Within a year, we completed more than one thousand of those school buildings. And by 2006 we had achieved our more ambitious medium- term plan target ratio of one classroom for every 50 grade school students on double shift. And even if we achieved that, because eventually we want to go to 45 students per shift, in 2007 we added another 15,000 classrooms. This year, we will start the construction season for 10,000 classrooms by a series of groundbreaking activities starting this Saturday. There are, of course, still a few instances of shortages in classrooms amid the nationwide sufficiency. The most famous or maybe infamous of these is the Batasan Elementary School in Quezon City which makes the front page every opening of the school year. The Department of Education, the Quezon City government and the DSWD, which owns the adjoining lot, are addressing this exception because the problem is that not that there are no funds but there is no space available. So Secretary Lapus has had to talk to Secretary Espie Cabral because that is going to require the use of the very property of the main office of the DSWD itself. Speaking of photos, today while there was a photo of a supposed tent classroom in Albay, so immediately we checked the field. According to the field, the classroom project in that school has been completed. The tent is being used as a recreational shed of children of evacuees. xviii
25 Keynote Address Anyway going back to attendance in schools. At day care centers, pre-schools and grade 1 in depressed areas, we initiated the food-for-school program which gives a kilo of rice per day to pupils in those levels. This program not only increased class attendance, it also helped dramatically cut hunger incidence as well as self-rated food poverty, which is now the lowest in our statistical history. Now, we will begin to harmonize day care centers and pre-schools so that they can provide the needed extra year of basic education. As a further and more direct incentive to school attendance, late last year we launched the Ahon Pamilyang Pinoy program of conditional cash donations to poor households who comply with rules that enhance learning and health. So we give the money because they are very poor, but the money... But the condition is that they have to send their children to school among other conditions. Now, under the proposed fiscal stimulus program to keep us resilient from the anticipated U.S. slowdown, I have instructed Secretary Andaya and Secretary Cabral to scale up this Ahon Pamilyang Pinoy from 50 million pesos last year to five billion pesos this year. Also to further reduce the time and money spent to travel to school, we now invite the local governments -- and I see representatives of local governments here -- to join us in a Bike-for-School program similar to Thailand s program to improve school attendance, and something we have already quietly piloted in the province of Eastern Samar. In this case, two siblings whose school is 10 kilometers away -- and I hope that there are not too many of those cases now -- can be provided a bicycle, which the family will amortize at one peso a day, and then the two siblings can bike to school. That will be at one peso a day that is less than one-tenth of the 13,200 pesos they would have to spend for fare for transportation if they have to take a ride ten kilometers away from home. In 2001 we said, that to prepare our youth to be the next generation of knowledge workers, we would upgrade math and science teaching. By 2006, we had trained over 100,000 teachers to improve math and science instruction. Now we can afford one billion pesos for teacher training this year, but 500 million of that will go to English training. We want all teachers to have 24 units of English, whether you get it in the course of getting your degree, or if you were not able to get 24 units during your degree years to get it in service. In 2001, we said that to improve the quality of education as required by a new economy, we would increase the number of textbooks per student. Within a year, we distributed 54 million textbooks to 16 million elementary and high school students up to second year high school. By 2006, we had achieved an initial target, our initial target of one-to-one textbook-student ratio in priority xix
26 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy subjects up to second year high school. And in 2007, we distributed more than 14 million textbooks, teachers manuals and instructional materials. I would like to congratulate the department of education s governance reforms that reduced the average cost per textbook and ensured correct and prompt deliveries, as monitored by NGOs including NAMFREL and the Boy and Girl scouts. But we recognized that there have been long standing problems of learning materials with erroneous or inappropriate content. If we cannot even ensure that textbooks are error-free, it would be extremely difficult to get the rest of our education program right. So sometime ago, I instructed Jing Lapus to create a high-level textbook review task force to rid learning materials of erroneous or inappropriate content, and I asked him to seek guidance and assistance from the members of the Presidential Council on Values Formation, as well as the leading institutes of education and science and technology. In 2001, we said we would hire more teachers. Within a year, we hired 15,000 new teachers compared to 2,000 a year before... Ah, compared to 5,000 in year 2000 before I became president. Between 2002 and 2007, we've hired more than 50,000 teachers. We have installed internet-linked computers in dozens of public high schools. We are now aiming for distance learning and cyber education where we hope to install computer linkage in every public high school especially in the rural areas, which will become community centers outside school hours. You know, I was inspired in the Davos World Economic Forum because there was great support for this project among the information technology governors of the W.E.F., including Microsoft and Hewlett Packard. In fact, it was Hewlett Packard who raised it during our roundtable, not even me. So I'm very happy and I have validation that it is something that we should do and is very desirable. On high schools, we have a lack of public high schools but we have a surplus of private high schools. We recognize the pivotal role of private high schools in national life. That is why instead of building more public high schools, we are expanding high school scholarships for the private schools. We are doing this through the voucher system and the government assistance to teachers and students in private education or GATSPE. We will build public high schools only in the jurisdictions where there are no private high schools available. So GATSPE and high school vouchers will be the key for high school education. Likewise, in tertiary education and technical education, we have raised the number of scholarship grants and loans to give the poor access. We have xx
27 Keynote Address increased to one billion pesos the allocation for TESDA s training program and we are encouraging scholarships in ladderized education. I wanted to make an announcement today as far as TESDA is concerned, but I don't want to make any announcements until I confer with Secretary Nonoy Andaya. So you have something to wait for Secretary Syjuco. Why are we are able to do all these increases? We're able to do all these because for the first time in a generation, less of our revenue is being used to service debt and more resources are being directed towards investment in human and physical infrastructure including education, health care and training aside from new roads, bridges and ports. And we are also able to do this because of the contributions to the classroom building program and computer linkage program of development-minded citizens and entities, including the chambers of commerce represented here today, including the corporate foundations, including the local governments, and including our overseas Filipinos. And we thank them all for their contribution to our human infrastructure. And we are able to do this, the large portion that still comes from national government funds, because the Philippine economy has turned around with 28 consecutive quarters of growth, topped off by seven percent in Our stock market is up, seven million jobs were created in seven years, and our currency is one of the strongest in Asia. Investments and many are surging and many new companies are investing in us. We're one of the best values in Asia right now, and we can be the best value if we are able to match education and job requirements. Poverty alleviation is our overarching goal. We will continue to focus on it. Balancing the budget is just the first step. Over the next few years, we will translate the positive results of our reforms to real benefits for the people, a number one benefit is education. We will continue to invest in new school construction at the elementary school level. We will bolster our scholarship program for high school students and for those ready for higher education. In return, we ask colleges and universities to update themselves about the current market demands in the local and international market, and to offer the courses that fit their graduates to the skills requirements of available jobs. Maybe no more customs administration, or maybe a little bit less of business management, more of entrepreneurship, things like that. And we instruct the professional regulatory commission to update licensure xxi
28 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy examinations to reflect technical and scientific requirements of business and industry. We ask local government colleges and universities to comply with the standards of CHED. Now to the teachers. You know, I asked Mona yesterday or the day before yesterday, "Mona, how many teachers are attending our congress?" "well, not that many," she said, "mostly, administrators." "Mona," I said, "I want my speech to be primarily a speech to the teachers. They make up the backbone of our education system. I want them to be the majority of the attendees in the congress." So I'm glad to see all these uniformed ladies and gentlemen around here because I want to say that the teachers indeed are the backbone of the educational system. And without you, our selfless men and women, our children would fall short of their dreams and aspirations. I remember when I was a little girl in Iligan, my idol aside from Prinsesa Tarhata of Sulu who was like Princess Diana for me. You know, well, what Princess Diana was for many later on at that time she was for me, my other idol was the teacher in Buroon Elementary School in our barangay. And we are deeply indebted to the hard work and dedication of all our teachers. Your work is noble and patriotic. You deserve the praise and respect of every Filipino. That's why you received additional compensation in 2006 and a 10 percent salary increase in That's why unlike in previous years, in our administration, teachers now receive at least the same amount of the ever increasing bonus that national government workers receive. In fact, Jing Lapus tells me your second installment of your bonus is coming soon to complete your 10,000 pesos. And also that is why teachers are included in our administration bill for a third round of salary standardization and increase. So let us all work, Congressman De Guzman, let us all work for congress to pass this bill. It's already in the 2008 budget. Teachers, but above all... But every participant also, every participant here is a stakeholder in our national effort to fight poverty by working towards a relevant and highly... And a high-quality educational system. And so let us all move forward together. Labanan ang kahirapan, isulong ang karunungan. Maraming salamat sa inyong lahat. xxii
29 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy Introduction Hon. Mona Dumlao-Valisno. Presidential Assistant for Education Office of the President A Roadmap to the Philippines Future Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy The Filipino nation should take advantage of the flatness of the world and move into the first world in 20 years. H.E. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo 1. PROLOGUE W e are entering a new age, an age of knowledge, in which the key strategic resource necessary for prosperity has become knowledge itself educated people, their ideas and innovation, and their entrepreneurial spirit. (Bloch, 1988). Unlike natural resources, that have driven earlier economic transformations all over the world, knowledge is inexhaustible. The more it is used, the more it multiplies and expands. But knowledge can be created, absorbed, and applied only by the educated mind. Hence educational institutions in general, and universities in particular, will play increasingly important roles as our societies enter this new age. Nations are investing heavily and restructuring their economies to create high-skill, high-pay jobs in knowledge-intensive areas such as new technologies, trade, global supply chain management, and professional and technical services. There is a growing recognition throughout the world that economic prosperity and social well being in a global knowledge-driven economy requires public investment in knowledge resources. The lessons are clear: regions must create and sustain a highly educated and innovative workforce and the capacity to generate and apply new knowledge, supported through policies and investments in developing human capital, technological innovation, and entrepreneurial skill. Economic indicators of countries like South Korea, China, South Africa and 1
30 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy even Thailand, our closest competitor, showed that they have steadily risen over the years. These countries have adopted a somewhat similar plan of a national innovations system that fully supports the transition of their economies into a Knowledge-Based Economy and Society. Each country had at least five common factors for development underlying their efforts towards a knowledge-based economy, namely: Endowed much funding for basic public goods and services, roads and ports, energy and communications, clean water, health and education services which raise the productive potential of firms and people. These investments served as the foundation for technological learning. Created an environment supportive of the establishment of small and mediumsized enterprises. Building these enterprises requires developing local operational, repair and maintenance. Supported and funded higher education institutions, as well as academies of engineering and technological sciences, professional engineering and technological associations, and industrial and trade associations. Established and strengthened inter-institutional linkages among universities, industries, government agencies and not-for-profit organizations. Interdisciplinary collaborations were further promoted which included sciences and engineering, business, law as well as ethics. Adopted good governance which promoted transparency and accountability in the use of public resources, fairness and the rule of law in social and business transactions, a level playing field for investment and competition, and reward for risk takers and entrepreneurs. Knowledge-Based Economy came about as a result of the intensification of the globalization process, dramatic scientific advances and the development and spreading of information and communication technologies (ICT). Truly, these innovations would both offer challenges and opportunities for the Filipino people as world systems have considerably changed how business is done and the system of governance have been significantly bent to handle KBE. But this is yet a question to ask: Will the Filipinos be able to cope with KBE and thus find new sources of prosperity in KBE? Perhaps, slowly yet surely, and with the cooperation of the various sectors, the Philippines is also likely to achieve a Knowledge-Based Economy of sort. It is this reality of the hyper-competitive, global, knowledge-driven economy of the 21 st Century that is stimulating the powerful forces that will reshape the nature of our society and that pose such a formidable challenge to the Philippines as a nation struggling to be a key player in the world s flatness. 2
31 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy 2. The Emergence of a Global Knowledge-Based Economy Eradication of poverty for the greatest number of Filipinos is the ultimate goal of the Medium Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP). Development planners and sociologists have long recognized the role of education, particularly tertiary education, as the most important driver of social mobility. As such, tertiary education can enhance our country s capacity to participate in the increasingly knowledge-based global economy. Today s global reality confronts us with a radically different economy characterized by economic restructuring, a revolution in information and communication technology and the emergence of a knowledge society accompanied by a rapid obsolescence of knowledge. All these will inevitably have profound effects on the education and training system in our country. In this era of globalization, there are new demands, new systems and structures, new skills and knowledge required. Our education and training system, undeniably, must adapt to all these developments so that it can respond to the demand for workers with competitive edge, especially those with technical knowledge required for high-end and emerging technologies. Given the exceedingly fast pace of technological changes in the world today, education and training should be able to integrate technical knowledge and skills to develop knowledge workers for the knowledge-based economy. The experience of South Korea has shown, without a doubt, that education is a key factor in hastening economic growth. The country s economic development plans have directly influenced its education policy and planning. Thus, the government has had a high degree of success in providing and expanding the education system in accordance with the human resource needs of industry. It will be noted that Korea was able to achieve a developed status in just four decades from practically nothing to what it is today by investing heavily in education. Given that, and the Philippines record growth rate of 7.3 percent in 2007 under the leadership of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, together with heavy investment in education under the 2008 General Appropriations, the Philippines should be able to achieve a developed status by the year The Pillars of a Knowledge-Based Economy Economies the world over have recognized that there are at least four inter-related factors that contribute to the evolution of a knowledge-based economy where knowledge becomes the key engine of economic growth. The 3
32 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy knowledge economy is one where knowledge is acquired, created, disseminated and applied to enhance economic development. According to the World Bank, a knowledge-driven development process must include 1) an educated and skilled labor force; 2) a modern and adequate information infrastructure; 3) an effective innovation system; and 4) the country s overall business and governance framework which determine the flow of investment in the first three factors. Workers in the knowledge-based economy must be able to continuously upgrade and adapt their skills to create and use new knowledge efficiently. The importance and support given to each level of the education system depends on the country s level of development. For instance, low levels of development require basic literacy and numeracy, which can be acquired in elementary and secondary education, as the essential foundation for skills development. On the other hand, lifelong learning is of paramount importance in the context of rapid changes in technology which require constant adaptation of knowledge and skills. A modern information infrastructure facilitates communication, dissemination and processing of information. This is essential for reducing transaction time and costs by making information readily accessible. Research centers, universities and other research organizations must keep up with new knowledge and technology, tap into, assimilate and adopt global knowledge to local needs. A lot of knowledge and technology that leads to innovation often originate from foreign countries, especially when their economies are less developed. In such countries, the diffusion of basic technologies must receive a great deal of attention and support. The overall business and governance framework is the base upon which the three other pillars are grounded. This includes a wide array of issues and policy areas including the macroeconomic framework, trade regulations, banking and finance, labor market policies and governance. The country should have a minimum level of human capital before we can develop an efficient research and innovation system or reap gains from investments in modern information technology infrastructure Pursuing the Four Pillars of KBE: The Philippines has long been on track to putting all systems into the KBE trail. Projects and programs of Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal- Arroyo had been attuned to building an economy that utilizes knowledge as an engine for economic growth. Several acts of legislation and even departmental
33 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy programs are being implemented to give way to the realization of the Philippine KBE. Primary to building a KBE is the need to strengthen education to produce a skilled workforce. In pursuit of the other three pillars of KBE, the present government has crafted and is implementing the National Science and Technology Plan (NSTP) , which is similar to what we call as a National Innovations System of other KBE-pursuing countries. Encapsulated in the NSTP 2020 are Philippines action plan on science and technology and research and development. Third, is the establishment of networks, including ICT infrastructure and social networks. Fourth, is the implementation of policies and regulatory frameworks towards a Knowledge-Based Economy. 3. Transforming the Philippines into a Knowledge-Based Economy (KBE) A Strategic Roadmapping In the Philippines, knowledge-based economy quietly started two decades ago when the country had experienced chronic foreign exchange and debt crisis. Globalization and the inevitable trade and finance liberalization policies have pushed Philippine industries to stern competition against imported products and foreign competitors. Thus, to survive the threat of competition, Philippine industries have to reinvent themselves from the second-wave technologies (assembly-line production) to the third wave of knowledge-based operations. At the start, the Philippines, then, was generally unprepared for the forthcoming knowledge-based economy. Many industries, higher education institutions as well as the government had to reinvent themselves in order to survive the new economy. The Philippines had to make significant policy and regulatory developments to follow-suit the new policy regulations brought about by KBE. Even the labor market share was greatly affected when the Philippines s unemployment and underemployment rate catapulted to a high 10% and 20 % respectively. Many think that the country might be losing its competitive edge, especially in industries where it is labor or knowledge intensive to lower wage Asian neighbors like China, Vietnam, Cambodia, Nepal, Indonesia and Thailand. Certainly, the road to a knowledge-based economy will not be an easy task. Then in a perspective, pushing for a Knowledge-Based Economy might well be an answer to the long-running problems of the country, of issues on poverty. As the Philippines looks into the prospects of building a knowledge-based society, it marches towards the realization of a developed economy hinged on the 5
34 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy critical interface among the four pillars of the knowledge economy framework : (i)education for a skilled workforce, (ii)science and technology, and innovation, (iii)ict infrastructure, and (iv)policy and regulatory environment EDUCATION FOR A SKILLED WORKFORCE At the forefront of building a knowledge-based economy is putting primacy to education. Thus, the Philippines continue to develop and improve the structure and quality of education system from the basic to the higher education level. As such, the dynamic interactions between public and private institutions of learning, as well as the active leadership of the industry and government, are now strengthened in order to create knowledge driven environment free from biases and political interferences in the long run The Philippine Education System The education system includes formal and non-formal education with English as the primary medium of instruction in all levels both in public and private learning institutions. The formal education is a sequential progression of academic schooling at three levels, namely, elementary, secondary and tertiary or higher education. The first level, elementary or primary education, consists of compulsory six grades (Grades 1-6) for age group of 6 to 12. However, some learning institutions are offering until Grade 7 to comprise the first level or basic preparation of students before entering high school. In addition, there is pre-school education which consists of kindergarten schooling and other preparatory courses which is now being standardized and adopted to the ladder of the education system (Plus 1). Secondary education, which is at the second level of the system, corresponds to four years of high school for age group of 13 to 17, the prerequisite of which is completion of elementary education. The third level is tertiary or higher education. Higher education consists of collegiate, master s and doctorate degree programs in various fields or disciplines including the post-secondary schooling leading to one-, two- or three-year non-degree technical or vocational courses. Alternative Learning System (ALS) or non-formal education (NFE) is an organized learning activity aimed at attaining a set of objectives outside the established formal system intended for a particular clientele, especially the 6
35 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy out-of-school youth or adult illiterates who cannot avail themselves of formal education. Courses are skills-oriented and range from 6 to 10 months. Figure 1: The Philippine Education System T E R T I A R Y PRE- SCHOOL 1 Year PRIMARY 6-7 Years SECONDARY 4 Years Post-Secondary Technical Vocational Education and Training (Non-degree / below 4 yrs.) Baccalaureate (4, 5, 6 year degree programs), Master s and Doctorate Harmonizing and synchronizing Philippine Education The Presidential Task Force for Education (PTFE) Management of a Trifocalized Education System Currently, the administration of the education system in the country is trifocalized as three different agencies man the three education levels of the system. The Commission on Higher Education (CHED), is the agency responsible for higher education, while the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA), is mandated to administer the postsecondary middle-level manpower training and development. The Department of Education (DepEd), on the other hand, was mandated to focus on basic education, which covers elementary, secondary and non-formal basic education. 7
36 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Basic Education: Building better Foundations While other countries all over the world have put in substantial investment in education with 5-6% of their GDP, in the Philippines through out the years, government has been constant in its committed investment in education with the basic education getting the biggest share of the yearly budget. Most significant increase in the Government s investment, with 2.7% of its GDP allocated for education, is seen from 2007 and However, despite the growing trend of investment in education, in totality, we have also to consider the annual growth rate of the population which is much higher than the increase in budget allocation for education to fully address the issue of the continuing decline in the quality of education in the country. Figure 2: Budget allocated to Department of Education from Budget Allocated to Department of Education from 2004 to 2008 (in billion pesos) Php Php Php Php Php Annually more resources are being allocated to improve quality of education by providing the much needed inputs (policy, program and resources including quality teachers and faculty in all levels). Records show that in 2004, cost per elementary student was a P83, compared to 156% increase in 2007 of which each student is allocated P213. On the other hand, each high school student costs P596 in 2007, indicating an 81% increase to that of P329 allocation per student in Private sector involvement in upgrading public education also improved remarkably showing that from P300 million in 2004 to P4 billion in 8
37 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy 2007 involving 93 private sector partners. Currently, to arrest the declining quality of education, the Department of Education (DepEd) is implementing an aggressive campaign to build on the quality and competencies of teachers in the country through the DepEd s package of policy reforms called the Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda (BESRA) formulated in The specific policy actions comprising the BESRA were designed to create a basic education capable of attaining the Education For All (EFA) objectives. The BESRA presents five critical thrusts: 1. School-Based Management - Community participation is being encouraged to ensure relevance and sustainability of innovations that will be implemented in the schools. DepEd is giving greater, but calculated, authority to school principals to make informed decisions, including the management of their own budgets. A tough task, in fact, considering that DepEd has to decentralize to over 42,000 decision centers. School principals are now held fully accountable, not only for financial disposition, but also for its effects on learning outcomes. In return, the Department is exerting efforts to staff schools with full-fledged principals. Note that about 60% of our schools are without principal positions. 2. The Competency-Based Teacher Standards pertains to ways and means by which teachers can further enhance their contributions to improved learning outcomes. This talks of the whole range of teacher preparation, from licensure through retirement, including salaries and benefits, and a lot more. The National Competency-Based Teacher Standards (NCBTS) was developed to guide teacher preparation, recruitment, deployment through retirement. Consequently, DepEd has revised their teacher hiring and deployment guidelines, shifting from credentialism to competency-based. In addition amendments to the Magna Carta have been drafted to look after teachers welfare and benefits. There is now an ongoing assessment of teacher competencies vis-à-vis the standards to guide training and development decisions. 3. The Quality Assurance and Accountability Framework concerns itself on the need for national learning strategies and systems and procedures that assure conformity to standards by all stakeholders of basic education. It looks at quality assurance mechanisms at input, process and output levels. 4. Not to be left behind are the complementary services for Early Childhood Education, Alternative Learning and private education. We are re-visiting our policies to maximize their contributions to improvements in learning outcomes. 5. Finally, the BESRA shifts its focus to the DepED as an organization its culture, ways and procedures along financial, material, technological and human aspects. BESRA argues that policy changes to be sustained and 9
38 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 10 deepened, the entire DepED must likewise be re-engineered, modernized. This is now being seriously studied. The universalization of early childhood education and standardization of preschool and day care centers was issued through Executive Order 658, series of 2008 (Expanding the Pre-School Coverage to Include Children Enrolled in Day Care Centers). This issuance accords Day Care Centers workers with teacher training on the curriculum and competencies for pre-school education together with the necessary materials in the DepEd. It was noted that combined public and private preschool enrolment steadily increased from 2003 to From 831,730 (18.36%) in SY to 952,109 (20.53) in SY or 120,379 (2.17%) schoolchildren added to the system. More than half of these numbers (557,220 children) are with DepEd s Preschool Program. Standard curriculum for 5-year olds was formulated in Reforms at the elementary and secondary education levels are also being instituted by the DepEd through its various programs. Enrolment since 2004 had gradually increased at about 2% per year of the school-aged population. Enrolment in SY was at P19.7 million for both elementary and secondary levels where 86% or 16.9 million are in public schools. This includes 607,085 beneficiaries of service contracting and education vouchers program under the GASTPE, which represents about 50% of private high school enrolment. Success indicators also indicated improved nutrition and school attendance among the students. Programs such as the Food-for-School program were strengthened as it was expanded from 676,740 preschool and grade 1 pupils in 2006 to 2.7 million preschoolers and grades 1 to 6 pupils in Malnutrition incidence dropped from 21% in 2006 to 17% in School attendance among children also improved from 90% in 2006 to 95% in School performance has also gradually improved. Reading and comprehension skills of Grade 3 students improved from a composite MPS of 49.21% in 2006 in English and Filipino to in 2007 or a net gain of 11.02%. The gain is attributed to DepEd s investing resources in such programs as Every Child a Reader Program (ECARP) which ensures that every Grade 3 student becomes an effective reader with comprehension at their level before they move to Grade 4. The achievement level of Grade 6 students also improved significantly from MPS of 51.49% in 2006 to 57.55% in 2007 or an increment of 11.77% for English, Science and Math. Net performance on all subjects improved from an MPS of 54.66% in 2006 to in 2007 or an over-all increase of 9.66%. Likewise the General Scholastic Aptitude for fourth
39 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy year high school students improved. The DepED believes that the best time and place to introduce life skills education is during basic education at the regular school. Whilst TESDA is on top of Technical and Vocational Education, DepED is currently strengthening technical and vocational education in the public schools to equip basic education graduates with necessary life skills to make them productive after completing basic education and to help them become competitive in the labour market. Also in 2007, DepEd introduced the Strengthened Technical- Vocational Education Program aimed at giving more high school students more livelihood options in case they are unable to pursue 4-year degree courses. In-roads to ICT-based education had also been established. DepEd s adoption of ICT in education proceeded steadily through 2007 in partnership with such agencies as DTI, DOST, Ayala Foundation s GILAS, Microsoft, Intel, ABS-CBN s Knowledge Channel and USAID. Computer hardware, software and course wares were made available to public secondary and selected elementary schools and community learning centers. As of 2007, a total of 4,712 high schools have access to computer services and 1,149 of them have internet connectivity. Shortages in resources, such as lack of classrooms and teachers, are being addressed by the government. The number of barangays and municipalities with no elementary schools or high school reached 445 in It was reduced to 267 in The unavailability of site to build schools in the remaining barangays and municipalities is the most common reason for the problem. Construction of new classrooms accelerated to unprecedented pace: 12,490 classrooms in 2004; 9,407 in 2005; 14,887 in 2006; and 14,665 in This success was made possible through DepEd s partnership with government offices, NGOs and the private sector. These accomplishments surpassed the target of 6,000 classrooms very year. Further, DepEd is continuously developing and creating programs and initiatives to improve the quality and relevance of learning including the strengthening of capabilities in Educational Evaluation and Testing. Finally, the DepEd has pushed for the hiring of more principals and teachers. Principal items were provided to 3,479 schools from , bringing down the number of schools without principal from 26,282 in 2006 to 22,803 schools in For the period of , a total of 42,572 teacher items were created as DepEd moves towards achieving the 1:50 teacher-student ratio. 7,574 items in 2004; 6,475 in 2005; 7,237 in 2006 and 16,334 in 2007, the highest number in years. 11
40 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Technical-Vocational Education Technical-Vocational education in the Philippines provides education and training opportunities to prepare students and other clients for employment. It also addresses the skills training requirements of those who are already in the labor market and would need to upgrade or develop new competencies to enhance employability and improve productivity. The potential clientele of TVET includes primarily high school graduates, secondary school leavers, college undergraduates and graduates who want to acquire competencies in different occupational fields. Other potential clients include those who are unemployed who are actively looking for jobs. Returning OFWs who have decided to work in the country are also possible clients of TVET as well as those who are currently employed and want to upgrade their skills or acquire new skills. There are four basic modes of training delivery: 1. School-based Formal delivery by the schools of TVET programs of varying duration of at least a year but not exceeding three years. 2. Center-based Provision of short duration non-formal training undertaken in the TESDA Regional and Provincial Training Centers. 3. Community-based Training programs specifically designed to answer the needs for skills training in the community to facilitate self-employment. 4. Enterprise-based Programs Training programs like apprenticeship, learnership, dual training which are carried out within the firms/industries. Over 3000 private and public institutions/centers carry out Technical Vocational Education and Training. More than 80% of the total enrolment in formal TVET is absorbed by private establishments. As of 2007 a total of 1,680,402 were trained. There had been increasing changes in the number of TVET graduates between the years 2005 and In 2005, 24.68% of TVET graduates from the formal school or institution-based programs, while in 2007, it increased to 29%. Center-based TVET graduates astonishingly rose to 20% in 2007 in comparison to the meager 4.82% contribution of the total number of TVET graduates. Community-based programs graduates increased to 45% in 2007 from 41% in 2005 while graduates from enterprise-based programs slightly decreased to 6% in 2007 for 7.5% in The training and development of the Filipino workforce for skilled employment is provided mostly by the private TVET institutions. Of the 4,515 12
41 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy TVET providers in the country today, 62% (2,786) of which are private and 38% (1,714) are public. The public TVET providers include the 121 TESDA Technology Institutes composed of 57 schools, 15 Regional Training Centers, 45 Provincial Training Centers and 4 Specialized Training Centers. Other public TVET providers include State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) and local colleges offering non-degree programs; DepEd supervised schools, LGUs, and other government agencies providing skills training programs. Since 2000, the government through the TESDA has moved to develop non-formal education clients to become more skilled and competitive in the global arena. In 1999, the TESDA, through consultation with major stakeholders in TVET from the public and private sectors, formulated the First Cycle National Technical Education and Skills Development Plan (NTESDP ) to guide the development efforts in the whole TVET sector. The assessment of the Plan implementation showed major gains in the sector for the past 5 years in terms of access, relevance, quality and equity. In terms of Access, there had been a recorded increased trend in TVET enrolment and number of graduates when the NTESDP was implemented. In 2000, TVET graduates from various delivery modes were recorded only at 340,111. It reached 839,898 by the end of 2004 which represents 147% increase from the 2000 figure. This is attributed to the expanding capacity in TVET provision as manifested in the increased number of TVET providers from 1,768 in 2000 to 4,510 in The responsiveness of TVET programs, measured in terms of employment and skills utilization rates of TVET graduates, also showed positive results. The graduate tracer studies conducted in 2000 and 2004 showed an average employment rate of 61% and an average skills utilization rate of 67% among the TVET graduates who were surveyed a year after completing TVET course. To ensure the quality of the TVET programs, the assessment and certification program was strengthened during the plan period to provide a more efficient system of assessing the competencies of TVET graduates. Under the NTESDP, TESDA had opened up more scholarships and other student financial assistance programs such as the Private Education Student Financial Assistance (PESFA). Efforts towards mainstreaming TVET at the local level to assist the local government units in the provision of more training opportunities to their constituents were also undertaken. With the success of the NTESDP, the 2 nd Cycle of the NTESDP was crafted. This time, the NTESDP focused more on some areas of gaps in the first NTESDP which needed to be addressed. The second cycle of the 13
42 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy NTESDP aims to provide decent and productive employment to workers. This equates to the availability of sufficient productive employment and access to income earning opportunities by the workers and the continuous enhancement of competencies through building up of capabilities for skills training on global competitiveness and positive work ethics. Opportunities shall also be made available to special clientele groups like women, differently-abled persons, and indigenous persons, among others. Participation of the industry was likewise reinforced through their support in the process by pursuing their institutional human resources development programs for their workers. Further to this, the need to ensure that institutions continuously produce quality graduates and workers by implementing a more rigid standards for systems, processes and procedures among TVET producers. There is also a need to provide the public with the most relevant and timely information on training opportunities and made available for prospective beneficiaries. Moreover, NTESDP seeks to catapult the number of TVET graduates with verified/validated competence to perform a particular skills acco0rding to quality standards defined by industry. Hence, the registry of certified job-ready TVET graduates shall be readily available to prospective employers, both for local and overseas employment. Finally, with the second cycle of the NTESDP, employability of TVET graduates will be enhanced. Not only would they have greater access to domestic or overseas employment, these graduates shall also enjoy the prospects for entrepreneurial and self-employment endeavors Higher Education At the apex of the education system, is tertiary education. At the helm of the tertiary or higher education sector is the Commission on Higher Education (CHED). It is the governing body covering both public and private higher education institutions. The higher education system in the Philippines consists of 1,679 colleges and universities, 1,486 of which are private HEIs and 193 public HEIs. The public institutions include 111 state universities and colleges (SUCs), 56 Local Colleges and Universities (LCUs) and 15 special government schools that include the Philippine Military Academy and the Local Government Academy. Enrolments in tertiary education continuously increase each year. In SY , enrolment reached 2,541,405 registering a slight increase over the previous year s enrolment of 2,451,238. Of this, 34% of the students enrolled are at public higher education institutions (PHEIs) while 66% are enlisted with private HEIs. 14
43 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy In SY , there were 419,000 graduates produced by the higher education system, 67% of whom are in Business Administration and related disciplines, education and teacher training, engineering and technology, and medical and allied disciplines. The CHED adopted two major strategies to broaden access to and improve equity in higher education: Broadening access of economically and socially disadvantaged groups to higher education and re-channeling some public resources directly to students to promote greater purchasing power and freedom of choice of educational opportunities: and Expanding alternative learning systems/modalities of higher learning. The CHED programs and projects for broadening access to higher education opportunities, especially among disadvantaged groups include: Student Financial Assistance Program, Ladderized Education Program (LEP), Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP) and Distance Education (DE) Student Financial Assistance Programs For SY , CHED provided a total funding support of P411,204,500 to 41,704 beneficiaries nationwide under 16 student financial assistance programs categorized unto Scholarship, Grant-in-Aid and Student Loan Programs. Three new grant programs were initiated in 2006: Philippine National Policy Study Grant Program (PNP-SGP) with an initial allocation of P10 Million; Study Grant Program for the Dependents of Tobacco Growers with an allocation of P550,000; and Emergency Financial Assistance for Students or E-FAST with a funding of P190 Million. In terms of faculty qualification, the current proportion of faculty members with graduate degrees is 31 percent with master s and 9% with Ph.D. degrees. In comparison, the proportion of faculty members in HEIs with master s degree in 2000 was 26%, while proportion of those with Ph.D. degrees was at 8%. 15
44 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy ETEEAP and Distance Education For the past years, access to higher education was enhanced through the several innovative financial assistance programs which includes the Private Education Student Financial Assistance, State Scholarship Program, student study grants ad loans. In AY alone, 52,013 students benefited from these scholarships and financial assistance programs. On the other hand, the number of graduates from Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP) has increased to 1012 in SY from 656 in SY Distance Education is also gaining popularity among students in the Philippines. Distance education is a mode of educational delivery whereby teacher and learner are separated in time and space, and instruction is delivered through specially designed materials and methods using appropriate technologies, and supported by organizational and administrative structures and arrangements. Currently, there are 17 institutions offering Open Learning and Distance Education (OLDE) with 68 academic programs being offered. In 2006, there were 791 graduates under the OLDE program of CHED Centers of Excellence and Centers of Development One of the flagship programs of CHED is the identification of Centers of Excellence and Centers of Development (COEs/CODs) among HEIs. CHED annually allocates a hefty sum to chosen COEs / CODs as funding assistance for instruction and research capability building, networking, extension and linkage activities National Higher Education Research Agenda The ten-year National Higher Education Research Agenda (NHERA) is a companion plan which covers the period it defines the general goals, directions and priorities for research in and on higher education. Through the NHERA, CHED has given technical and funding support for research endeavors and expertise building, as well as recognition and awards for outstanding research outputs. The NHERA is currently being updated Ladderized Education Program In May 2006, the CHED and TESDA launched the Ladderized Education Program. Ladderized education is a new system of education in the country that allows learners to progress between Technical-Vocational Education and Training (TVET) and College, and vice-versa. It opens 16
45 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy opportunities for career and educational advancement to students and workers. There are currently 629 institutions in the Philippines offering ladderized degrees. There are also 1,130 disciplines that are being offered under the ladderized program. As of December 2007, scholars under the ladderized program totals to 71,008, which exceeded by 238% their 29,775 target. While CHED is currently implementing several other programs and projects that focuses on enriching Philippine human capital, CHED recognizes one of the major issues that confronts the education sector today: the job-skills mismatch. As for the CHED s efforts, it intends to realign college education with the needs of the economy to ensure the employability of graduates. Though various programs had been implementing various projects and programs in line with aim of addressing the job-skills mismatch, Acting CHED Chairman Romulo Neri, in an interview with the PhilExport News and Features, stated that such measures hopes to reduce the number of unemployed persons in the country. Neri pointed out that the government has to talk to the industries and get business together with the academic community to make sure that courses are aligned to what the business needs and what the academic community produces in terms of graduates. Perhaps creating a better teaching curriculum for colleges and universities to ensure that they produce quality graduates may contribute to alleviating the situation. He also emphasized the need to hasten the implementation and perhaps, promote the Ladderized Education Program (LEP) among Filipinos as option to acquiring college education. In this light, Executive Order 694, s. of 2008 was issued Enabling higher education institutions to opt to ladderized their education programs without need for issuance of permit from CHED and TESDA. The LEP is a combination of technical and vocational courses that are creditable for a collegiate degree. CHED had also earlier exerted efforts in re-directing course preferences in its aim to address the quantitative mismatch. The following programs were designed for graduating high school students as well as first and second year college students: 1. Implementation of a National Career Streaming and Qualifying Examination. CHED administered an aptitude test to guide high school graduating students on what course they may take based on the result of the said exam. From the result, a student may be given three choices of courses to pursue in higher education. 2. Implementation of an aggressive Career Guidance and Counseling for graduating high school students as well as first and second year college 17
46 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy students. Since the first two years of college curriculum are devoted to general education courses, college freshmen and sophomore students may always have the option to change courses. 3. For undersubscribed courses, CHED has devised a program to attract students by: a) providing scholarship and other incentives for students enrolling in undersubscribed but needed courses, and b) providing government subsidy in the procurement of equipment for priority curricular offerings. As for the qualitative mismatch, CHED has taken measures through the following efforts: 1. Improving quality of instruction by: a) providing graduate study scholarships for college faculty in English, Science, Mathematics and other priority courses; b) SUCs offering graduate study scholarship for elementary and high school teachers in English, Science and Mathematics. 2. Re-engineering of academic curricula to make these ITenabled, market-responsive and globally competitive, and offering new emerging courses in Science and Technology, i.e. Nano-technology, biotechnology, bio-diesel and materials science. 3. Strengthening HEI-Industry linkages as well as enhancing connections with foreign universities. Such a liberal environment will be complemented by a well-managed quality assurance system for the entire education system involving not only the aggressive implementation of Executive Orders 705 and 705-A mandating a unified accreditation system with common standards per discipline and supervised by the Commission on Higher Education, but also the operationalization of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS). The NEETS is envisioned to be a reputable body, independent of the three education agencies of government that can coordinate and harmonize various existing agencies and efforts (public and private) in this field, and assume responsibility for educational assessment at all levels- basic, higher and technical education Investment in Education For 2008, Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, true to form as the real Education Czar, has approved this year s General Appropriations Act that will effectively respond to the three Es the Economy, the Environment and Education the most important programs that will 18
47 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy improve the lives of the Filipino people. This time, education occupies the front seat, having been allocated almost PhP200 billion, consistent with the Constitutional mandate that education should get the lion s share of the national budget. Around PhP2 billion has been allocated for the pre-school program, in accordance with the move to make pre-school an additional year for basic education. Approximately 10,000 new teachers are expected to be hired for basic education while PhP1 billion has been earmarked for teacher training in English, science and mathematics. Roughly PhP3 billion has been allocated for the technical vocational education and training sector, including P1 billion for training scholarships and PhP350 million for training in business process outsourcing jobs. On the other hand, about PhP700 million has been earmarked for higher education scholarships, aside from the PhP300 million allocated for science scholarships at the Department of Science and Technology. In order to improve computer literacy at the basic education level, around 1000 computer laboratories will be set up by the Commission on Information and Communication Technology (CICT). All these investment in education must be utilized to ensure that the country steadily marches forward towards the enhancement of the knowledgebased economy to ensure a high level of national productivity and readiness for global competition. Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo announced that the education sector under the national budget takes a front seat, securing the highest allocation at P200 billion accounting for 16% of the overall budget, thus far 34% of the departmental budget allocation removing the automatic appropriations for debt services. In the PhP200 billion allotment, the Department of Education (DepEd) has PhP billion while State Universities and Colleges will get PhP19.64 billion, and the remaining amount will be divided among other education agencies of the government like Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA), as well as other programs, projects and activities for education sector. This year, the government has earmarked funds for the construction of 10,000 classrooms, the procurement of 35.5 million new textbooks, the setting up of 920 computer laboratories in public schools, 62,000 scholarships under the Education Service Contracting, increase in the high school voucher from P4,000 P5,000 to P7,000; research and technology and science scholarships. She mentioned that the government will also increase the college 19
48 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 3: Department Budget Allocation for 2008 Department Budget Allocation for 2008 (in billion pesos) Other government agencies and programs, projects, and activities, 85.7, (14%) DOST, 5.5, (1%) Spending for the Philippine Science High School, Science and Technology Projects of the University of the Philippines, among others LGUs, 21, (3%) Education, 200, (34%) Congress, 6.04, (1%) DFA, 10.19, (2%) Judiciary, 10.28, (2%) DOH, 19.77, (3%) DOTC, 20.82, (3%) DA, 24.71, (4%) DND, 50.93, (8%) DPWH, 94.75, (16%) DILG, 53.24, (9%) scholarship fund to PhP400 million and hire up to 10,000 more teachers, while additional funds would be allocated for vocational training, and teacher training for english, mathematics and science. Comparatively speaking, the Philippine government has allotted 16% for Education, but if the debt services budget allocation is to be removed, the national education budget will have 34% of the total national budget, which is not too far from our Asian counterparts. For instance, Malaysia has 26.3% allotted for Education, Thailand has 20%, Singapore has 22%, Indonesia has 16.5%, and Hong Kong has 25% all were allotted for Education The Presidential Task Force for Education On July 10, 2007, the Office of the President of the Philippines issued Executive Order 632 which in effect abolished the National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE), and mandating the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education (OPAE) to exercise its functions. On August 21, 2007, Executive Order 652 was issued creating the Presidential Task Force on Education (PTFE) to assess, plan, and monitor the entire education system. 20
49 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 4: A Harmonized Trifocalized Philippine Educational System The PTFE, consistent to its mandated thrust to the upkeep of the education system has developed and maintain a model of a Harmonized Trifocalized Philippine Education System handled by three co-equal agencies: the Department of Education (DepEd) for basic education; the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) for Technical and Vocational Education; and the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) for tertiary or higher education. The generation and use of creative ideas and knowledge are key to the continuous improvement of societal and economic sectors. Ultimately, nations have to recognize that skills and competencies develop rapidly in a knowledgebased economy. Thus, our workforce must possess competencies, including creativeness and responsiveness, productiveness and the ability to adapt to the fast-changing environment. Studies on economic growth among nations show 21
50 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy that among the factors of production, human capital has increased dramatically. Positively, the rate of return to investment in education and training had been steadily on the upstream. On the other hand, non-formal education in the country comprises of education opportunities even outside of school premises that facilitate achievement of specific learning objectives for particular clienteles, especially the out-of-school youths or adult illiterates who cannot avail of formal education. The First National Biennial Congress on Education held from January 31 to February 1, 2008 at the Tent City, Manila Hotel, Philippines, is a major step taken by the Philippine government to enhance quality of education in the country. It is a move to have a more effective and coordinative implementation of policies and programs in education. This is in response to the President s vision of putting each Filipino in the main education highway, where every Filipino family is ensured that each child has the opportunity to acquire high quality education to make one a whole person, a successful entrepreneur and a productive and responsible citizen. President Arroyo underscored the need to improve the education system primarily as the United Nation s Millennium Development Goals aims to achieve universal primary education by 2015 and in making our education system stronger, attuned to the demands of the Knowledge-Based Economy The Philippine Main Education Highway The quality of education is one important determinant of the country s level of productivity, of our ability to compete in the global marketplace and of the level of our living standards. Tertiary education can broadly and extensively support the required knowledge-driven development growth strategies aimed towards poverty eradication. Against this backdrop, the PTFE has adopted the Philippine Main Education Highway continuum as its strategic platform towards the fulfillment of its goal of producing quality and world-class graduates. The Main Education Highway continuum starts from pre-school, to basic education, to middle-level or technical-vocational education and higher education. It incorporates two other elements: tighter linkage of tertiary education with industry and provision of lifelong-learning mechanisms and interventions. The Main Education Highway incorporates the vision of the Filipino family where every son or daughter has the opportunity to get high quality education 22
51 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 5: The Philippine Main Education Highway: Its Components and Feeders The Philippine Main Education Highway: Its Components and Feeders that will make him or her a whole person and lead him or her to a productive, well-paying job or become a successful entrepreneur and a responsible citizen Industry Academe Linkage The formulation of the Philippine Main Education Highway embodies the desired development of the Filipino youth, from the acquisition of knowledge, life skills and values in the primary to secondary to tertiary education. All stakeholders in education which includes the parents, schools and community should contribute to the development of a well-rounded individual who possesses social and work skills, sound values and a deep love of God and country. Education being provided to the youth should be one that is of quality and has relevance that will make each student a productive citizen who can be gainfully employed or become entrepreneurs. Hence, it is but imperative for education to be shaped with accordance to the exact needs of the industry in order to compete in a knowledge-based economy. Knowledge-based economies demand that its human capital can very well deliver and adopt to the tasks of specific occupations. This way, we can address the lingering issues on unemployment and underemployment. A successful linkage between industry and academe shall result into a more realistic curricula for various disciplines, effectively train and re-train faculty, efficiently use equipment and impose transparency in the utilization of funds. With the emergence of a knowledge-based economy, industries have also become providers of learning opportunities in exchange of a good performance 23
52 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy and commitment of its employees and hopefully improve education received by graduates from universities. Corporate universities a concept that is rooted in the USA and exists in Europe and Asia since the late 1990s are centrallymanaged learning institutions run by a company. The learning structure is therefore aligned to the nature of a particular organization s business environment, business strategy, and globalization phase. The programs instituted encourage continuous learning. The trend of putting up universities in the corporate structure have been brought about by the need for higher education institutions to create courses of direct relevance to specific companies and the need to react more quickly than public institutions, thus, making employees more qualified and ready to accept the ever-changing demands of the industries. Hence, with this trend, higher education institutions in the Philippines have realized that each graduate that they produce should be tailored fit to the specific needs of prospective hiring companies. By itself, the linkage between these two sectors cannot be realized without the implementation of strategies such as addressing the mismatch of industry and supply of graduates, generating commitment from the industry and academic communities to prepare graduates for gainful employment or entrepreneurship, and internationalizing education to meet global standards. Ambassador Donald G. Dee, Special Envoy of the President for Trade and Negotiation, is spearheading the campaign for a tighter coordination between the industry and the academe. The Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI), and followed by the Employers Confederation of the Philippines (ECOP) and the Universal Access to Competitiveness and Trade (U- ACT) has identified nine (9) pilot industry sectors and assigned industry champions to the following : Business Process Outsourcing, Tourism and Hospitality Services (including Education Tourism and Medical Tourism), Electronics, Engineering (including Agricultural Engineering Education), Construction, Maritime, Ship Building, Health Care, Wholesale and Retail. The School to Office Response to Employment, or the S.T.O.R.E. will be piloted by the industry which primarily aims to identify manpower forecasts per industry and per company; tracks job openings and skills requirements, academic qualifications and training required; to meet with the demands of companies requiring manpower supply from educational and academic institutions. Both parties are linked by a common database that allows information sharing on job vacancies and qualifications required for certain positions in participating member companies. 24
53 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy Partnerships between the industry and academe are currently being strengthened with Industry leading the way through Industry-Academe Linkage in Technical-Vocational Training and Higher Education; Comprehensive Industry-Academe Partnership Models in Higher Education; Strategic Industry- Academe Models in Higher Education; and Institutional Industry Academe Partnership Models. Industry-Academe Linkage in Technical-Vocational Training and Higher Education: The Philippines adopted the models of Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Denmark, Netherlands and France to initiate the development of manpower pool. In 1994, the Dual Training Systems Act of 1994 or Republic Act No was approved. It was geared towards the employment and consequently match the skills between students and industry needs. Comprehensive Industry-Academe Partnership Models in Higher Education: Universities have recently developed models of partnership concentrating on English Proficiency as a fundamental requirement of modern industries. Strategic Industry-Academe Models in Higher Education; and Institutional Industry Academe Partnership Models: These programs are aimed at the following: a) objective is hiring; b) Training is industry specific; c) Metrics are used for performance assessment; and d) Specific to an industry Pay when Hired Policy Initiatives of the National Competitiveness Council (NCC) The National Competitiveness Council was created by E.O. 571 to develop, among others, globally competent workforce capable of providing quality products and services. The Council was organized towards the end of the National Competitiveness Summit held at the Heroes Hall of the Malacañang Palace called by President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in October 6, The Council has been tasked to push a national action agenda on competitiveness prepared by task groups on six major sources of competitive advantages and is a product of the partnership between the government and the business community. Committed on a program to build a pool of competitive Filipino workers and professionals, the group has promised to expand the Manggagawang Pinoy training program pioneered by the Employers Confederation of the Philippines (ECOP) and promote nine professions identified with high export potentials and include their plans in the rolling Philippine export development plan. 25
54 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The NCCC and the Presidential Task Force for Education (PTFE) are closely coordinated, specifically in the areas where the industry and academe linkages needs to be established and supported. In November 2007, the Council organized a People Competitiveness Summit: Creating Sustainable Multisectoral Partnerships. In the said event, Senator Angara emphasized the following: There will be greater and sharper competition than ever. Innovation will be the generator of growth Success or failure will be determined by our technological capacity to innovate Asia will be the home of the next scientific and technological revolution because by 2010, 90% of all scientists and engineers will be in Asia. Effective planning necessitates defining the country s present position, knowing where we are now so we can know where we want to be in the years to come. In the said summit, the following describes the competitive position of the country s education sector. Few scientists and engineers are doing R and D in proportion to population. Poor performance of secondary students in mathematics and science reflecting the dismal state of its teaching More non-majors teaching science subjects which is a major cause of weak science SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION One of the four pillars of having a KBE is the formulation of an effective national innovation system of firms, research centers, universities, and other organizations that can keep up with the modernization of knowledge, take advantage of its universal growth, assimilate, incorporate and adapt it to local needs. As knowledge has been recognized worldwide as the driver of economic growth and social well being, it has also brought focus on the role of information, technology, and learning in the economic performance and social progress. The Philippine government, for its part, is encouraging and sustaining innovations and initiatives in science, and technology especially in research, training and development. Efforts continue to focus on establishing a mechanism aimed to encourage, coordinate, and link all the interactions among the different actors and stakeholders (learning institutions, industry, 26
55 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy government and non-government organizations) in the realm of the priority sectors National Science Technology Plan : A National Innovations System In the Philippines, we have completed the National Science and Technology Plan (NSTP 2020) which is a long-term indicative plan that defines, in broad strokes, the direction of science and technology development in the Philippines for the given period. It is the S&T community s response to the national leadership s call for S&T to be the foundation of the future economic development in the country. This plan was formulated by the Department of Science and Technology (DOST). The NSTP specifically states that by 2004, the Philippines should have improved access to quality S&T services, higher productivity and competitiveness for Philippine products and industries, creation of technologybased enterprises in the regions, S&T-based solutions to pressing national problems, and greater S&T awareness and support among leaders and policy makers. By 2010, the country shall have world-class capabilities in ICT, technological leadership in ASEAN in biotechnology, materials science and microelectronics, adequate number of quality scientists and engineers, robust technology-based and knowledge-based industries, globally competitive products, quality S&T-oriented higher education, top performance in science and math, highly-developed culture of innovation and S&T consciousness, enhanced private sector participation in S&T/R&D activities, and a national R&D budget of 1% of GDP. By 2020, we shall have established a well-developed S&T-based SME sector, world-class universities in S&T, internationally recognized scientists and engineers, and model status for S&T management and governance. The Plan enunciates the following strategies: 1. Niching and clustering--prioritization of S&T interventions is based on identified market niches and industry clusters particularly in program planning of support services to industries. 2. Addressing pressing national problems-tapping of S&T in addressing pressing national problems like poverty, poor health, rapid population growth, food, water, energy, housing and jobs, low income and productivity levels, environmental pollution, cyber-terrorism, and poor governance. 3. Developing S&T human resources--the S&T capacities of Filipino individuals and institutions are to be continuously built specifically in terms of strengthening science and mathematics education, focusing of higher 27
56 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 28 education programs, harnessing the potentials of locally available S&T expertise in different sectors, and maximizing the contributions of foreignbased Filipino S&T professionals to the national S&T development efforts. 4. Providing support to SMEs - the access of the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to available technologies and technological services has to be assured and broadened. 5. Accelerating technology transfer and utilization--appropriate incentive structures are to be put in place to encourage all stakeholders to accelerate the transfer and commercialization of available technologies. 6. Building and upgrading S&T infrastructure--the capacities of S&T institutions and facilities particularly in strategic areas in the regions are to be continuously developed. 7. Strengthening government-industry-academe-civil society and international linkages--partnerships with all stakeholders, government, industry, academe and civil society including foreign-based multilateral and bilateral institutions are to be worked out. 8. Improving S&T governance--a conducive policy environment for S&T development is to be created with particular attention to harnessing the full potentials of ICT for governance. 9. Promoting and popularizing S&T--the culture of innovation among the public, policy makers and government decision makers is to be pursued; and incentives and recognition are to be accorded to S&T achievers and achievements. The NSTP also identifies the following priority areas for S&T development: 1) agriculture, forestry and natural resources; 2) health/medical sciences; 3) biotechnology; 4) information and communications technology; 5) microelectronics; 6) materials science and engineering; 7) earth and marine sciences; 8) fisheries and aquaculture; 9) environment; 10) natural disaster mitigation; 11) energy; and 12) manufacturing and process engineering. These area thrusts were identified in consultation with S&T experts and stakeholders and serve as resource allocation guide for scarce S&T resources and for directing publicly-funded S&T assistance, whenever available. Over the short-term, three major technology transfer programs have been identified. These programs are 1) the Small Enterprise Technology Upgrading Program or SETUP, 2) the Technology Incubation for Commercialization or TECHNICOM Program; and 3) the Technology Support Program for E-Governance or SUPRE-GOV. SET-UP provides assistance to micro, small and medium sized enterprises in terms of its adoption of new technologies, personnel training, design of
57 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy packages and labels and establishment of product samples. For the period of , 727 firms were supported in acquiring modern production equipment and upgrading the quality and marketability of their goods. More than 10,000 people were trained on key production issues such as quality and environment management systems) and more than 3000 firms took advantage of the consultancy services provided by the Program. The project thus reaped a successful output as companies were able to enhance their productivity and meet international quality standards and make their way in to new markets. Further, the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) has implemented the Techno-Gabay Program. This program established in 2006 the Farmers Information and Technology Services Centers which provides support to farming communities all over the country. The 202 Center offers computer-aided information and training on farming technologies. The development of the NSTP has been a highly participatory process which took a year to finish since it was started in in coming up with the NSTP s visions, goals, strategies and area thrusts, consultations involving S&T experts and opinion leaders and stakeholders from the private sector, government, academe, and non-government organizations were held Continuing Science & Technology Programs A number of DOST programs are considered continuing as mandated by enabling laws and executive orders. Among these are R&D programs, S&T human resource development programs, and disaster preparedness and hazard mitigation programs Research and Development Programs DOST continues to embark on priority R&D programs and redirected the R&D efforts of its attached agencies to address the identified NSTP concerns such as: a) pressing national problems on water, energy and environment, shelter, health and nutrition; b) productivity improvement; c) development of new technologies and products for global competitiveness; and d) capacity development in pioneering areas such as materials science and microelectronics. In developing products for global competitiveness, we continued to support R&D on wireless technologies. Moreover, we supported R&D efforts in pioneering areas such materials science and advanced biotechnology. Pres. Arroyo approved on June 18, 2001 the Policy Statement and Framework on Modern Biotechnology to promote the safe and responsible use 29
58 , The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy of modern biotechnology and its products as one of several means to achieve and sustain food security, equitable access to health services, sustainable and safe environment, and industry development INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (ICT) INFRASTRUCTURE Knowledge based economy operates closely using the ICT to efficiently facilitate acquiring, capturing, storing, disseminating, using, and processing of local and foreign information and knowledge on a global basis. The Philippines is taking serious consideration in building the information and communications technology infrastructure and networks in the country. It is also instituting dynamic strategies in providing a modern and adequate information infrastructure for its people. As KBE heavily utilizes ICT, the present administration has invested on ICT such as telecommunications. Much of the country s growth factor was contributed by the increase in the expansion and product diversification of major telecommunications companies and investments in call centers and business process outsourcing KBE and Information Technology Utilization Recently, the government has taken significant strides to build the country s image as an attractive information technology (IT) destination. As of May 2006, there are 27 IT Parks and IT Buildings (from 19 in 2003) which have been proclaimed as IT Ecozones by the President of the Philippines and are now registered with Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA). In her speech during the First National Biennial Congress on Education held on January 31 to February 1, 2008, she highlighted that the Philippine economy has turned around with 28 consecutive quarters of growth. With all the reforms that have been going about, the Philippine Stock Market is up and seven million jobs were created in seven years (from 2001). Today, the Philippine Peso is at its strongest in Asia and investments are surging and many new companies are investing in the country. The President proudly defended our country as one with the best values in Asia, even more if the country rose up to bring quality education and job requirements at a match ICT Initiatives In January 2004, the Commission on Information and Communications Technology (CICT) was established. The CICT then submitted the Philippine ICT Road Map ( ). The Strategic Roadmap presents the strategies and 30
59 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy programs drawn from a carefully developed vision for the Philippines' ICT sector - to create a people-centered, inclusive and development-oriented Information Society that promotes sustainable development and improves the quality of life for all. According to the CICT, the Strategic Roadmap is also a declaration of the Philippines' belief in ICT as a critical tool for economic growth and development, and ultimately, for empowering the nation, and citizens as individuals. By this, the Philippines reaffirms its commitment to provide equitable access to information and knowledge for all, and recognizes that ICT is the key to fulfilling this commitment to promote better governance, corporate performance, and individual achievement. Finally, this Strategic Roadmap is meant to provide the framework for the next five years ( ) that will help to provide overall policy direction, while rationalizing policy decisions and choices on ICT. It is envisioned to create wider awareness and appreciation for ICT; identify key initiatives to rally all stakeholders and encourage them to undertake initiatives that complement the short and medium-term ICT development plans of government; provide investment opportunities; lay out sustainable strategies for the further development of ICTs; define short and medium term objectives; provide the private sector with a reliable frame of reference to heighten their action planning for the future; and increase coordination in implementing ICT programs and achieving the desired impact and outcomes Some Programs and Projects on ICT As the Commission on Information and Communications Technology puts it, all citizens should have access to basic government services, information, and quality education through the use of appropriate and affordable ICT technologies. The Philippine government is committed to ensuring universal access to ICT, and will prioritize programs to benefit marginalized sectors and underserved areas The Community e-center Program Spearheaded by the CICT, this program will establish various communitybased options for telecommunications and internet access through the partnership of the government with the private sector, local governments and civil society stakeholders, the Philippine governments and civil society stakeholders. Various trainings, specifically adapted to particular needs are also provided to ensure the sustainability and effective operations management 31
60 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy of the centers. 1. Internet in Schools (ischools) project aims to provide public high schools with computer with broadband inter-connectivity, completed by educators training (ICT Literacy/Competency Training for Teachers, Lab Manager Sustainability), tech support, and monitoring and evaluation. 2. e-care Centers are specially designed to provide access and training programs for Persons with Disabilities (PWC). It is a goal to establish one ecare in each region. 3. e-lgus CeCs enable local government units to deliver services more efficiently, while providing their respective constituents with access to the Internet and other ICTs. The project also recognizes model websites and best practices in the local government. 4. Regional ICT Centers will spur regional development through the use of ICT in education, commerce and governance and spearhead the building of local e-marketplace or one-stop-shops for e-commerce, e-learning and e- government services Low Cost Computing PC ng Bayan initiative was launched by CICT in 2005 in order to provide low cost computers to the population. At present these computers are available through the Department of Budget and Management s procurement service. To further reduce the cost of access to ICT goods and services and to help combat the use of unlicensed software particularly in government agencies and educational institutions, CICT is promoting the use of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) as an alternative to pirated commercial software. Towards these goals, it is distributing FOSS CD Kits which compiles software options that come with quality features that match those on commercial products and are supported by the open community of developers and users DOST Initiatives on ICT The beginning of the Arroyo administration also ushered in numerous plans to push the country into a being a KBE. Starting in 2001, President Arroyo called for the increase in the use of ICT by establishing high-speed connectivity by pressing on the ICT frontiers in the country. One of the most notable programs of the government is the Philippine Research, Education, and Government Information Network (PREGINET). Through the PREGINET, the country is now able to participate and engage in joint projects with research institutions globally. This enables local researchers and 32
61 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy academics to collaborate with colleagues here and broad. The PREGINET is a project funded by the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), and is implemented by the DOST s Advanced Science and Technology Institute (DOST-ASTI). It is a research and education network that was envisioned to be a catalyst for collaborative research and development among government, academic, and research institutions. At present, there are 76 partners connected to the network coming from research (29); academe (14); and government (33). PREGINET was first implemented on June 1, 2000 and is currently funded at a total project cost of P 79 million. It is expected to be self-sustaining after direct DOST funding support ended on December 31, The network operates nationwide through access points in most regions of the country, mostly utilizing existing network infrastructure of the Telecommunications Office (TELOF) of the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC), and the facilities of domestic common carriers. The Philippines, through ASTI-PREGINET, has direct connectivity to a number of international research and education networks (RENs) such as the Asia Pacific Advanced Network (APAN) and the Trans-Eurasia Information Network 2 (TEIN2). These connectivity to APAN and TEIN2 serve as the country s connection to other regional research and education networks including Internet2 in the United States and GEANT2 in Europe. PREGINET also participates in the Asian Internet Interconnection Initiative (AI3), which is a Japanese-led research initiative that provides a satellite-based open Internet test-bed for the research and academic community in Asia. Certainly, the PREGINET has made the Philippines become a part of the international research and education networks which is important in stimulating regional development and cooperation and helping the country to become an integrated part of the global research community. The Philippines, through ASTI-PREGINET, has benefited from being a partner of these networks. Among the sectors that have benefited most from these partnerships are disaster mitigation, medicine, distance education, and agricultural research. Another institution that has made use of ASTI-PREGINET s APAN/TEIN2 links is the International Rice Research Institute, which holds virtual conferences and consultations with other Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) centers across the world to facilitate leading-edge agricultural researches it undertakes. Through PREGINET, partners are also provided access to electronic journals, dissertations, and thesis of the Philippine e-library project, a joint undertaking of five (5) government agencies. Through its partnership with the AI3, ASTI-PREGINET 33
62 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy also participates in distance learning initiatives such as the School-over-the- Internet Asia (SOI Asia) Other ICT Programs In 2003, DOST also initiated and received support from the E-Government Fund to implement the Philippine E-Library Project, E-Government Portal Project, and the continuation of E-LGU Project. Funded through the e-government Fund of the Philippine Government, the project hopes to provide for the information needs of all sectors of society in a convenient, affordable, and efficient way of delivery POLICY AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT This fourth pillar of the KBE framework presents good economic policies and institutions that permit efficient mobilization and allocation of resources and stimulating creation, dissemination and use of existing knowledge. The Philippines policy, strategies and agenda towards a knowledge-based economy is broadened to include regional, national, and global elements capable of assisting the nation and its human resource to access global economic and human capital markets. The government is institutionalizing the use of thematic thrusts by providing a policy and regulatory environment aimed at bridging the many digital, cultural, and educational divides between and among countries and economies in the global arena, and harmonizing all sectors (e.g. the media in projecting the Philippines as an investment haven, various government agencies, higher education institutions both private and public, local government units, etc.) which contribute to the attainment of a knowledge-based Philippines. The Philippine government took cognizance of the demands of the new development era, and the gaining popularity of the Knowledge-Based Economy. As the Medium-Term Development Program (MTDP) and its targets were developed, the government has given emphasis on the reduction of poverty by building prosperity for the greatest number of the Filipino people. It was no less than Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo who drafted the government s 10-Point Agenda which primarily stresses on job creation and enterprise for the country to achieve economic growth and stability. The MTDP is a detailed roadmap towards achieving our common goal of reducing poverty through job creation and enterprise which is set for the following targets: 34 GDP growth accelerating to 7-8% by the years
63 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy An investment to GDP ratio nearing 28% by 2010 Exports exceeding $50 billion by 2006 A balanced budget by 2010 Annual job creation exceeding 1.7 million jobs by 2009 And poverty incidence reduced to below 20% by 2009 The Philippines luckily surpassed several crises finding its strength in its rich human capital. Hence, the tertiary or services sector continued to grow despite the crises. This unknowingly shifted the country into a service economy, a knowledge-intensive sector which is the prologue to becoming a knowledgebased economy. In 2004, the Philippine service sector had made its mark when it created more wealth and employed more people than agriculture or industry sectors. Export mix had gradually shifted away over the past 3 decades from primary products such as abaca, sugar, copra, copper, gold, etc., towards manufacturing (semiconductors, etc) and services (Overseas Filipino Workers). For the past twenty years, the Philippines had become a service economy. It is worthy to note that the services sector is a knowledge-intensive sector. Our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from services had always been above our GDP from industries/manufacturing and even agriculture. Today, about 8 million Filipinos abroad bring in a total of about $10 billion yearly into the formal and informal local economy. In 2007, our GDP rose astoundingly at a rate of 7.3 per cent, more than what is expected and targeted by the Arroyo Administration in her 10-Point Agenda. OFW remittances soared to a US$14 billion high. In the 4 th Quarter of 2007, our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a rate of 7.3 compared to the 5.5 per cent of Notwithstanding the mounting hurdles in the external environment of the country, the Philippine economy remains to be strong. For the first quarter of 2008, the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) has announced the growth of our GDP to 5.2% from January to March which is still within the government s official forecast of between 5.2 to 6.2%. Moreover, OFW remittances for the first quarter totaled Ph219.8 billion according to the National Statistics Coordination Board (NSCB). Certainly, the country persistently runs down all obstacles brought about by an external environment characterized by high oil prices and weak global demand. 35
64 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 4. An Epilogue : The Road Ahead The modern world is now termed a "knowledge society"; where education and information have become production factors potentially more valuable than labor and capital. Thus, in a globalized setting, investment in human capital has become a condition for international competitiveness. And to be able to fare well in this global knowledge-driven economy, regions must create and sustain a highly educated and innovative workforce, supported through policies and investments in cutting-edge technology, a knowledge infrastructure, and human capital development. Looking at the human capital theory, it clearly states that the economic development of a nation is a function of the quality of its education. In other words: the more and better educated a people, the greater the chances of a nation to move toward economic progress. The vision for a knowledge-based Philippines sees education as the overarching theme of this roadmap - the moving force towards its realization. As the challenge of globalization rose as to whether or not our human resource can compete fairly in the 21 st century meeting up the demands of skills and competencies of the global economy. Achieving a Knowledge-Based Economy is never a far-fetched reality for the Philippines. The Filipinos can virtually be found in any knowledge-based economy as we are considered to be a major source of intelligent, creative, persevering and industrious people, majority, if not all, are hired and preferred by multinational companies and respected individuals. If we have therefore contributed much to the achievement of a KBE-status of these countries, what more can we do for our own country who aspires to be a knowledge-based economy. Therefore, as the country is positioning itself towards a full-pledged knowledge-based society and capable of achieving peace, and social well-being and globally competitive in the next decades, the following roadmapping initiatives are the imperatives: 4.1. Education-for-All a. Continuing development of appropriate strategies and mechanisms to guarantee the achievement of a zero drop-out rate in all levels of education, beginning with the Pre-School and ensure that various modes of delivery of education such as alternative learning system and life-long learning programmes should be expanded. b. Ensuring a 100% participation rate (possibly all citizens) in basic education and 36
65 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy increasing participation rate in higher education and post-secondary levels of education through options as embodied in the Philippine Main Education Highway framework like the Accreditation and Equivalency Program in the basic education level and the Expanded Tertiary Education and Equivalency and Accreditation Program in the tertiary level Upgrading the competencies and capacities to meet the challenge of the 21 st Century a. Workforce. Ensure continuing programs for the upgrading of work force skills and knowledge attuned to the fast changing pace of technological innovations. b. Graduate School. Improving the quality of graduate education and providing ample logistic support to graduate education programmes to develop a high-level human resource by both private and public higher education institutions. c. Science, Mathematics and English. Continuing programs for upgrading and development of strategies in the contextualization of Science, Mathematics and English to broaden its application across all-levels, trades and profession. Provide attractive packages to encourage more enrollees in science, math, technological and engineering course in the undergraduate and graduate level. d. Research & Development. Strengthening and supporting research universities and promote Research &Development (R&D) networking. Provide incentives for advance development of scientists and researchers across all sectors: academe, industry and other technical professional fields Quality Assurance a. Improving and establishing a quality assurance mechanism in education from preschool to graduate education for our students to gainfully achieve competencies needed for the 21 st century. b. Ensure a culture of continuing improvement and develop more effective ways of monitoring, evaluating and encouraging quality and competitiveness at all levels of education Investment in Education a. Increasing or maintaining each year the 34% allocation of investment in education of the total national budget. b. Invigorating every Filipino s desire to pursue higher education and deepening understanding and awareness that the government provides need-based financial aide, student loan schemes or scholarships to its citizens. c. Employing a rationalized increase in investment in Education based on a system of normative financing scheme which reflect greater accountability and 37
66 , The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy efficiency particularly in the tertiary education level Participation of the Industry a. Heightening the participation of the industry as lead in strengthening partnerships and alliances of the industry-academe through consortia and other modes of collaboration. b. State universities and colleges (SUCs) as well as private higher education institutions should be involved in the transfer of technology and encouraged to upscale their research and development and innovations capabilities by providing them with very attractive packages of benefits and incentives and adjusting tax policies to their convenience. c. Strengthen networking or interfacing of the SUC/HEIs with the industry in helping establish Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Science and Technology Investing more in science and technology and engineering research and development through the various Centers of Excellence and Centers of Development (COE/CODs) Foreign Language Designing a Foreign Language Learning programmes in collaboration with other countries specially those we are dealing with trade as this is necessary for trade, cultural and other forms of international exchange Information and Communication Technology (ICT) a. Providing conducive policy and funding support for the comprehensive application of ICT in classroom instruction and communication development of students and teachers. b. Assuring the existence of a policy environment that will attract potential investments that will pave the way to upgrade ICT infrastructure in the country and consequently become a potential employment generator in the country Knowledge Networking for Critical Capabilities. Establishing a network of knowledge which supports exchange of information, knowledge and learning in critical and specialized areas like marine science, etc. 38
67 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy Higher Education Networking a. Expanding the network of higher education both in the public and private sectors to firm up collaboration of research and development initiatives and sharing of resources and assist each other in building their capabilities as they embark in foreign educational partnerships and linkage. b. Government to provide the necessary support for the development of five universities to a world-class status in the areas of technological research and development Investment for Education a. Maintain or increase investment in education b. Institutionalize a normative financing scheme for state colleges and universities with greater accountability c. Provide more scholarships and improve student loan schemes Government Productivity Improvement a. Development of ISO aligned standards for all government agencies b. Providing for Right Competition Policy Sustain Fiscal Gains to Provide Additional Resources for KE a. Increasing revenue collections b. Efficient public expenditure management c. Improve debt management Monitoring & Evaluation Institutionalizing an effective and standardized monitoring, assessment and evaluation mechanism that will continuously assess the impact of the reform measures for continuous improvement and rationalizing allocation of government funds and future priorities Peace & Security Escalating security measures and further promotes social well-being of each Filipino guaranteeing a peaceful and educated society through implementation of peace and values education programs. Education is absolutely the key 39
68 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy to peace and security Mega-Region or Super-Region Development in the Philippines President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo stressed the need to develop the country s five super regions in order "to strengthen the competitiveness of the Philippines." Accordingly, the economic development is not just about roads and railways; it is also about providing people with right incentives and opportunities to be entrepreneurs or well-paid workers" which could be achieved through better education and training in accordance with the resources of each of the mega-region or super regions. Hence Government must implement new development planning strategy in strong partnership between the LGUs and the education sectors to spur economic growth in the countryside and eventually lead the Philippines to achieving a First World Status in the next two decades Bilateral / Multilateral Agreement a. Expanding and reinforcing bilateral agreements tailor fit to specific requirements of each identified country through: Continuing professional development and training International benchmarking on program offerings and quality assurance (standards, professional accreditation, among others) International exchange of students and faculty: Pursuing stronger collaboration for a world-class research with other countries Sharing of standards to facilitate international meeting of competencies in the 21st century b. Increase support the Philippines membership and participation in global or international organizations, forum and assemblies. As stressed throughout this roadmap, in a knowledge intensive society, advantage is achieved through creating a highly educated and skilled workforce that is competitive on a global level. Among the essential elements for a knowledge economy are human capital, new knowledge, and infrastructure. There can be no more compelling priority with a higher rate of return than investment in our people through public support of educational opportunities at all levels. The Philippines is looking forward to build and sustain a world-class education system spanning the full range of opportunities from pre-school to higher education, to graduate and professional education, to 40
69 A Roadmap to the Philippines Future : Towards A Knowledge-Based Economy lifelong learning. Henceforth, the Philippines is now ready to take flight towards a full-pledged knowledge-based society fulfilling the vision of the Philippine Main Education Highway ultimately ensuring every Filipino child the opportunity to get high quality education that will make him or her a whole person, and lead him or her to a productive, well-paying job, a successful entrepreneur and a responsible citizen. References Aubert, Jean-Eric. Building Knowledge Economies: Advanced Strategies for Development. World Bank Institute Development Studies. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/ The World Bank: Washington D.C Bloch, Eric. National Science Foundation, Testimony to Congress Cagahastian, David. P1.227-trillion national budget for 2008 signed. Manila Bulletin, Wednesday, March 12, CHEDLink. Editorial: No More Ivory Towers for They are Sweet Nothings. Vol. 1. Issue 1 July December Pasig City, Philippines. Commission on Higher Education (CHED). Medium-Term Development Plan for Higher Education (Updated) Responding to the Challenges of a Dynamic Environment. Office of Policy, Planning, Research and Information. CHED, Pasig City Commission on Higher Education. Policies and Programs. Presented on January 31, 2008 at the First Biennial National Congress on Education, Manila Hotel, Tent City. Department of Education. Policies and Programs. Presented on January 31, 2008 at the First Biennial National Congress on Education, Manila Hotel, Tent City. Executive Order Creating the Commission on Information and Communications Technology, signed on January 12, 2004 by President Gloria Macapagal- Arroyo Medium Term Development Program National Economic Development Authority (NEDA). Retrieved on June, 2008 from   MTPDP /MTPDP% %20 NEDA%20v11-12.pdf National Science and Technology Plan Retrieved on June, 2008 from     Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. Speech delivered during the 29 th National Conference of Employers by the Employers Confederation of the Philippines, 15 May Presidential Task Force for Education. First Report. Presented on June 3, 2008 at the Cabinet Meeting, Aguinaldo Hall, Malacañang Palace, Manila. Sibal, Jorge V. Transition from Production-Based to Knowledge-Based Economy. Training Knowledge Workers. Report of the APO Survey on in-company Training Strategies for Knowledge Workers. Asian Productivity Organization Sue, J. & Chen, D.H.C. Korea as a Knowledge Economy: Evolutionary Process and Lessons Learned. World Bank Institute Development Studies. Korea Development Institute and World Bank Development Institute: Washington D.C Technical Education and Skills Development Authority. Policies and Programs. Presented on January 31, 2008 at the First Biennial National Congress on Education, Manila Hotel, Tent City. 41
70 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 42
71 Part I Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education
72 
73 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Chapter 1 Presentation of Progress Reports Chapter 1 presents the progress reports of the Presidential Task Force for Education; the three Education Agencies: the Department of Education (DepEd), the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), and the Technical Education and Skill Development Authority (TESDA); the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA); and two education committees from the Ho0use of Representative, namely, the House Committee on Basic Education and Culture and the House Committee on Higher and Technical Education Progress Report: Presidential Task Force for Education Hon. Secretary Romulo L. Neri Chairman, Commission on Higher Education Co-Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education Presented by Hon. Mona Dumlao-Valisno Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President 1.2 Policies and Programs:Department of Education Hon. Secretary Jesli A. Lapus Department of Education 1.3 Policies and Programs: Technical Education and Skills Development Authority Hon. Secretary Augusto Syjuco Director General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority 1.4 Policies and Programs:Commission on Higher Education Hon. Secretary Romulo L. Neri Chairman, Commission on Higher Education Co-Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education Presented by Hon. Commissioner Nona S. Ricafort Commission on Higher Education 1.5 The Updated Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan ( ) for Education 45
74 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Hon. Margarita R. Songco Deputy Director General, National Economic Development Authority 1.6 Policies and Programs Hon. Congressman Del R. De Guzman Chairperson, House Committee on Basic Education and Culture House of Representatives 1.7 Policies and Programs Hon. Congresswoman Cynthia A. Villar Chairperson, House Committee on Higher and Technical Education House of Representatives 1.8 Vision for Education Excerpts from the speech of Hon. Senator Allan Peter S. Cayetano, Chairperson, House Committee on Basic Education and Culture, House of Representatives Dignitaries onstage during the Opening Ceremony, from L-R: TESDA Secretary, Hon. Augusto Boboy L. Syjuco; Manila Hotel Chairman- Don Emilio T. Yap; Marikina City Representative, Hon. Del R. de Guzman, The President of the Philippines, Her Excellency Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Angeles University Foundation Chancellor, Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles; Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations President, Fr. Roderick C. Salazar, SVD; Presidential Assistant for Education, Hon. Mona D. Valisno. 46
75 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.1 Progress Report: Presidential Task Force for Education Hon. Secretary Romulo L. Neri Chairman, Commission on Higher Education Co-Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education Presented by Hon. Mona Dumlao-Valisno Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President T he creation of the Presidential Task Force for Education by virtue of Executive Order 652 came at a time when President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo gave me the challenge to assume the chairmanship of the Commission on Higher Education. The Presidential Task Force is headed by Father Bienvenido Nebres who is one of the private sector members representing the academe. During the Inaugural Meeting of the Task Force, I took the opportunity to share my thoughts on what I believe education meant to the common tao. I said that the vision of every Filipino family is to ensure that each son or daughter has the opportunity to get high quality education that will make him or her a whole person and lead him or her to a productive, well-paying job or become a successful entrepreneur and a responsible citizen. I believe that the government can provide the opportunity to fulfill this vision of Filipino families, being the main investors and stakeholders, and assure them that their investment in their children s education will get the best possible returns in terms of developing their children s capacity to raise a family and contribute to the betterment of society. Across the three levels of Education, a significant development was the presidential mandate through Executive Order 632 abolishing the National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE) (E.O. 273) and transferring to a Presidential Assistant for Education the functions of Institutionalizing the system of national coordination, planning and monitoring of the entire system, along with the creation of The Presidential Task for Education (PTFE) through E.O. 652 to provide the necessary policy directions. The members of the Presidential Task Force, coming from the private sector and the government sector, have adopted this vision to come up with the concept of the Main Education Highway. As conceived, the Main Education Highway starts at the pre-school level, proceeding to elementary, secondary and tertiary levels. 47
76 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Specific goals and metrics are designated for each level. A good pre-school education is expected to provide 5 year-old children with socialization and adjustment skills which will lead to better achievement and reduced possibility of dropping out in the succeeding years of schooling. For the elementary level, we intend to eliminate drop-outs from different grade levels and continuously improve student performance in the Division and National Achievement Tests. At the tertiary level, we intend to improve the match between college education and the needed job qualifications in business and industry in order to resolve the job mismatch. At the end of the education highway, we should expect to be able to turn out Filipinos who have the skills to work or become entrepreneurs, the personal abilities to manage their emotions, the social abilities to nurture relationships, and the thinking abilities to solve problems and successfully cope with change. After the Pre-Task Force Inaugural Meeting on September 10, 2007, the Task Force held a number of regular meetings with representatives of various stakeholder clusters and special meetings with President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. Based on lengthy deliberations in the Task Force, the President has agreed that all day-care centers catering to five-year old children which are under the supervision of the Department of Social Welfare and Development and devolved to Local Government Units (LGU s) shall henceforth be transferred to the supervision of the Department of Education. This pre-school program will become an additional year for basic education. The DepEd shall develop a standard curriculum for this initial school age level and train and accredit day-care teachers who will handle the program using the standardized curriculum. The Task Force has also deliberated on the predicament of higher education institutions which are intending to ladderize their degree programs in line with the provisions of Executive Order 358. The Task Force has recommended to the President that such institutions should have no need for another permit or authority either from the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) or Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA), so long as the program or programs intended for ladderization has had previous government recognition. Higher Education institutions concerned will simply notify CHED and TESDA about their adoption of the ladderize programs. On January 18, 2008, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo signed Executive Order No. 694 entitled: Enabling Higher Education Institutions to opt to ladderize their Education Programs without need for issuance of permit from the Commission on Higher Education and the Technical Education and Skills 48
77 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Development Authority. The Order paves the way for the extensive implementation of ladderized education programs as mandated in Executive Order 358. In relation to this, the President has declared that associate programs at the tertiary level are under the jurisdiction of the CHED. One of the important recommendations of the Presidential Commission for Educational Reform in the year 2000 was the establishment of common standards for accreditation per discipline. Since one of the basic mandates of the Task Force is to look into the Philippine Commission on Educational Reform (PCER) recommendations, the Task Force recommended to the President that there should only be one council to govern the implementation of a set of accreditation standards per discipline and common for all higher education institutions. This was the result of a series of consultations with existing accrediting agencies. Formal directives are now being prepared in this regard. Manifesting serious concern about the state of Philippine education, the President called for a series of six special meetings towards the latter part of last year where a number of decisions have been reached. One set of major presidential instructions are directed to the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) especially with regard to the conduct of licensure examinations. The PRC is directed to check the validity and reliability of the professional examinations, especially on the relevance of the topics covered. The various professional boards should be open to changes and ensure that the licensure examinations truly reflect the current scientific and technical demands of industry. In this regard, the President directed the PRC to work in close coordination with industry especially in terms of updating the licensure examinations to reflect current industry requirements. The PRC was also directed to work closely with the Commission on Higher Education to eliminate overlaps. The Implementing Rules and Regulations of their respective charters may need to be revised to reflect such initiatives. On the other hand, the President directed the (CHED) to review the memorandum orders that it has issued since 2002 and introduce revisions to its implementing rules and regulations, if necessary. Related to this, the President ordered the suspension of CHED s memorandum order setting a cap on tuition fees. CHED will revert to a previous memorandum order which does not set a cap on tuition fees until the Task Force can thoroughly deliberate on the issue and make its final recommendation to the President. Another PCER recommendation that the Task Force dealt with is the strengthening of teacher competencies at the basic education level. With the order to release P500 million for this purpose, the President has taken 49
78 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy cognizance of the need to improve teacher competencies and the adoption of the new general education curriculum that includes 24 units of English, and 12 units each of science, mathematics and the social sciences. In-service training for basic education teachers will be intensified. Further, the President instructed the DepEd to prioritize the inclusion of the skills in communication, literacy, numeracy and critical thinking among the competencies in the National Competency-Based Teachers Standards. The President also emphasized the need to focus on in-service teacher training. With respect to faculty development in the tertiary education level, another PCER recommendation, the President has indicated that in order to increase the number of tertiary level teachers with master s degree, the opportunity to pursue a masters degree from the current 1,000 to 3,000 then classes should be conducted on Saturdays or during the summer months. Another major pronouncement of the President is that henceforth, the government will no longer allocate funds for the establishment of more public secondary schools. Instead, the government will allocate funds for more scholarships through the voucher system currently utilized under the Government Assistance to Private Education (GASTPE) Law so that more secondary students can enroll in private secondary schools. The Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education (OPAE) has been instructed by the President to study the Australian model and loan schemes in other countries for possible adoption in the country. In one of the special meetings with the President attended by officials of the Philippine Association of State Universities and Colleges (PASUC), the President noted the need to level the playing field between the State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) and the private higher education institutions. She noted the cost distortion between the two that is leading to the continuing migration of students from the private Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) to the SUCs. The distortion in characterized by low cost but high tuition fees in the private HEIs and high cost but low tuition fees in the SUCs. In this regard, the President has emphasized that the same fiscal standards should apply to SUCs and private HEIs. In line with this, the President directed the SUCs that are offering courses which are not mandated by their charter to charge full tuition for such courses since these will no longer be subsidized by the government. The implementation guidelines for such programs will be prepared in coordination with concerned private institutions to ensure that the tuition fee levels are comparable with those charged by the private HEIs. 50
79 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Under the strategic framework on cross-cutting of the Medium Term Development Plan (MTPDP) , a well-organized effort and development of structures to promote and maintain quality assurance in all levels need to be considered and need to be tackled system-wide or integratively under the auspices of the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education with policy directions from the PTFE. The MTPDP envisions the NEETS as a central authority for quality assurance governed by the PNQF. The NEETS shall promote quality assurance in the educational system and provide capacity building for all institutions in order to instill a culture of quality. In this connection and as per mandate of EO 632 & 652, H.E. President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo instructed the Task Force to fast track the implementation of the PCER recommendation for the establishment of the NEETS. The Task Force is set to pursue this mandate in 2008 and continue to build upon it up to 2010 with the US, Hong Kong and the Singapore experiences serving as benchmark. Existing educational testing systems, such as those that are currently in place at the Ateneo, UP, and LaSalle, including those in the NETRC and TESDA s competency assessment activities will be taken into consideration. A special concern on the oversight functions of DepEd has been noted by the President, particularly as this pertains to the operations of foreign schools in the Philippines. She directed the DepEd to look into its oversight functions with respect to the International Schools. Barely four months into its work, the Presidential Task Force for Education, with the encouragement and untiring support of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, has been able to achieve all of these and set into motion various reforms that should redound to improvement in the quality of education and training in the country. All told, there remain a number of other issues, concerns and recommendations forwarded by the PCER and the Joint Congressional Commission on Education or EDCOM that still require further discussions. In today s workshops, we shall deal with six specific issues to generate further inputs to allow the Task Force to firm up its recommendations to the President and to Congress. One such concern is the development of strategies to achieve full support of all stakeholders to basic education to attain high quality education, dramatically increase retention rate and implement fully innovative retrieval programs to reach a zero drop-out rate. 51
80 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Another is the task of further improving our teachers competencies through the pre-service teachers education program and the in-service teacher training program. Of course, we also have to factor in our faculty development program at the tertiary level. We also want to invite your inputs towards a truly harmonized technical vocational education and higher education, especially as this relates to the ladderization of higher education programs under Executive Order 358. As we continue to grapple with the high rate of unemployment among our highly educated citizenry, we need to look closer into the establishment of purposeful linkages between higher education and the PRC to meet the needs of the industry. We also need to revisit the management, regulatory and coordination issues of the three education agencies of government, including a second look at the trifocalized system of education. Finally, following the directives of the President, we will consider measures that can increase financial assistance to private education and rationalize budgetary appropriations to the state colleges and universities. As the acting Chairman of the PTFE, I wish to thank you all for coming to this National Consultation on Philippine Education and I look forward to your valuable inputs in the workshops. Thank you and good afternoon. 52
81 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.2 Policies and Programs: Department of Education Hon. Secretary Jesli A. Lapus Department of Education A pleasant morning to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I will attempt to share with you the present state of and huge task in basic education that caters to over 20 million learners, who are housed in over 45,000 schools and community centers, and supported by over 513,000 teaching and non-teaching personnel hopefully, in 15 minutes! According to Bill Gates, in the 80 s, quality of education was the challenge in many countries. In the 90s, the call was re-engineering systems and structures. By the turn of the century, the challenge is velocity, meaning acceleration or speed up. We may ask, Where is the Philippines in this context? As we re-visit all the 3 levels of education in the Philippines today, can we sincerely address this question: Do we have the quality? Do we have the structure and most importantly, can we accelerate? That I think, is the very reason why we are here today, exactly 18 years after we committed ourselves to the global movement of the first Education For All (EFA). EFA, after all, is the universal mandate of CARING NATIONS! EFA strongly emphasizes Access to Education and echoes as well other components such as quality. As enshrined in the Philippine Constitution, the goal of basic education is to provide quality basic education services to all Filipinos. Translating that into a vision, the Department now follows the goal of making every Filipino functionally literate able to read, write, compute and apply these skills in daily lives. To attain this, the Department s medium and long term development plans all revolve around this single, most important objective of providing quality basic education for all. The MTPDP carries our thrusts and directions under the President s BEAT THE ODDS strategy. The E in BEAT THE ODDS stands for Education for All. The BESRA talks about instituting policy reforms in the basic education sub-sector to accelerate quality improvements desired under the mother plan of Education for All
82 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy National Plan of Action. We are providing you with EFA brochures to keep you abreast of the nine urgent tasks that government needs to address to improve the quality of basic education in this country. You can secure your copy from the Summit Secretariat. This is the Basic Education Framework in a snapshot, showing the scope of services DepEd provides, the flagship programs that we implement, and the heavy collaboration we do with other partner government institutions, the academe, the private sector, and the industry. Benefiting from Department of Social Welfare and Development s (DSWD) Early Childhood Care and Development Programs, we help catch the 5-year old children from classes organized by LGUs through the day care centers, those organized by churches, NGOs and private schools. As the child enters Grade 1, we check on his/her readiness for formal instruction through the Grade 1 Readiness Assessment Tool. If found ready, the child immediately proceeds to formal Grade 1 work; otherwise, the child undergoes the 8-week preschool education course before he/she is introduced to the Grade 1 curriculum. Next is the 6 years of elementary and the 4 years of high school education. Learning assessment takes place at Grade 3, Grade 6, and Year 2, all through the National Achievement Test and at Year 4 through the National Career Assessment Examination (NCAE). The NAT is an achievement test, while NCAE assesses the competencies of the student to guide them in their career choices after high school whether to proceed to post-secondary education under TESDA or to higher education under CHED, or simply join the world of work. In order to assist private education and decongest public schools, students are awarded scholarship subsidies known as GASTPE to enable them to continue education in participating private high schools. Those who leave the system in between are offered alternative learning and we assess and certify them through the Accreditation & Equivalency Test. This section will present the most critical of issues and challenges confronting the basic education sub-sector at present. Our story is an open book and many onlookers may view certain solutions to problems in DepEd as pretty simple and straightforward. But what complicates our situation is the sheer scale, the urgency and the bureaucratic constraints of our mission. The first serious issue pertains to the need to prepare five-year olds for formal instruction. Worldwide studies point to preschool education as the best foundation to make children and their parents embrace schooling. Thus, if a 54
83 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education child has a favorable preschool experience, chances are great that they can finish up to Grade 4, then Grade 6 and further up the basic education ladder. It becomes imperative therefore, that we expose the children to an interesting and fun-filled early childhood education. Presently, however, our Grade 1 readiness rate is only 35%, and we expect it to increase to 40% this school year. These 35% children immediately proceed to Grade 1 work at the start of the school year. For the 65% who are not yet ready, they are exposed to an 8-week course on preschool education. This is lamentable because 8 weeks of learning opportunity are lost right at the start of classes. Another is the unabated opening of private preschools whose programs are of doubtful quality. Yet, they charge high tuition fees, making preschool education doubly costly on the part of the parents high tuition, but no meaningful preparation. Finally, DepEd is constrained to enforce universal preschool education among parents, simply because it is not yet part of the 10 years free basic education ladder. Our second great challenge is reaching the unschooled. In terms of absolute numbers, I actually refer to 2.2 million six to eleven year olds, and 3.4 million twelve to fifteen year olds, or a total of 5.6 million who are not in school. They are in the streets, working in high risk, but low paying jobs. Wherever they are, or whatever they do, they are prone to all forms of human trafficking and exploitation. Further, we need to reckon with the 11.6 million Filipinos who have never attended schools, and are, therefore, illiterates. It is highly probable that the 5.6 million school-aged population are part of this 11.6 million. We need to muster all support to get this group to seek basic education whether, formal, informal or non-formal, so that we do not deprive them of life s opportunities. These less-fortunate children, youth and adults are mentally young to survive life s real challenges, but are big enough to get themselves into trouble. The third great challenge for DepEd is retaining the insufficiently schooled. They are the ones who encounter difficult circumstances in life poverty, cases of teenage pregnancies, student laborers, children whose parents were poorly schooled, slum dwellers, families who live in areas with peace and order problems - so that their stay in school is so fragile that they face the risk of falling out, sooner or later. We need to arouse their interest and motivate them towards learning, or make schooling interesting for them. We need a combination of interventions that will keep them attending school despite the odds. Are we winning them? Yes, if we go by the statistics of last year s. But no, because there are still fall outs and every one of them is so important that we need to get them back to school at all cost. 55
84 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The fourth is how to raise the proficiency level of the school children who are already in school, but are not getting a good deal of quality education. What is encouraging is the increase in the number of Grade 3 learners who now can read and comprehend, an increase in the number of Grade 6 pupils who have higher mastery of English, Science and Math which we all know are key subjects for learning, and finally, an increase in the number of students with higher general scholastic aptitude. All 4 indicators have started to ramp up, which are the acid test of the system. However, we are aware that despite these modest improvements, much remains to be desired. While there is no overnight solution for these, we are more confident now in saying that we are probably hitting the right interventions and we are hopeful that this will be that start of an even better mix of resources and expertise in the future. With your support, we intend to ramp up these numbers further, this year and next, given the host of interventions that we have laid out. Another challenge pertains to 2,163 elementary and secondary schools that performed poorly in the recent National Achievement Test. These are the schools that scored below 35% Mean Percentage Score. We intend to turn around the performance of these 5% of our schools by being top priority in whatever educational resources will be made available to DepEd. For instance, the teachers in these schools will be prioritized for training and development activities pertaining to languages, science and math. The students will be provided more supplementary reading materials and health and nutrition interventions. The learning environment in these schools will be improved by infusing more of DepEd resources to them, as well as in reducing class sizes to a more manageable level of 45 students, from the present standard now of 50. On DepEd budgets, it is common knowledge that we have severe shortages in basic learning resources that have accumulated in the past. While we are gaining headway in addressing the more major ones like classrooms, teachers and books in our watch, still a lot more (in fact in dramatic amounts) resources needed to bring quality of basic education to global standards. Despite having the biggest share among agencies (but dwarfed by allocations for debt service and IRA), the Department of Education s budget pales in comparison with international standards. UNESCO estimates that about 6% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) should be allocated for education and World Bank noted that developing countries must spend at least 20% of their budgets for education, if they wish to attain the aspirations of EFA. Where are we? A meager 2.53% only of the GDP for basic education and 12% of the national budget (which includes funds for debt servicing). Blame it on the weak fiscal position of the country and its huge debt burden. 56
85 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Cognizant of what is happening in the sector, my predecessors formulated a reform agenda to plug the holes where the system bleeds. This agenda is now popularly known as BESRA or Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda, to re-visit and revise all policies and systems now obtaining in the sector that hinder performance improvements. For everybody s information, we have fully supported this initiative and all requisites attached to it. After all, as a professional manager, we put great efforts to implementation. The BESRA is good! There are 5 critical thrusts in BESRA: 1. School-Based Management is emphasized so that school authorities can address swiftly their local needs. We are drawing in community participation to ensure relevance and sustainability of innovations that will be implemented in the schools. We got positive feedbacks from World Bank that this SBM- Philippine style, is worth watching, because of the many unique, yet challenging things now unfolding before us. 2. The Competency-Based Teacher Standards pertains to ways and means by which teachers can further enhance their contributions to improved learning outcomes. This talks of the whole range of teacher preparation, from licensure through retirement, including salaries and benefits, and a lot more. 3. The Quality Assurance and Accountability Framework concerns itself on the need for national learning strategies and systems and procedures that assure conformity to standards by all stakeholders of basic education. It looks at quality assurance mechanisms at input, process and output levels. 4. Not to be left behind are the complementary services for Early Childhood Education, Alternative Learning and private education. We are re-visiting our policies to maximize their contributions to improvements in learning outcomes. 5. Finally, the BESRA shifts its focus to the DepEd as an organization its culture, ways and procedures along financial, material, technological and human aspects. BESRA argues that policy changes to be sustained and deepened, the entire DepEd must likewise be re-engineered, modernized. This is now being seriously studied. The following are some concrete examples of what we have been doing since last year that came out as a result of BESRA, in attempting to answer the various issues and challenges that have been identified for the basic education sub-sector. On SBM, we are giving greater, but calculated, authority to school principals to make informed decisions, including the management of their own budgets. This is a tough task considering that we are decentralizing to over 57
86 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 42,000 decision centers. School principals are now held fully accountable, not only for financial disposition, but also for its effects on learning outcomes. In return, we are exerting efforts to staff them with full-fledged principals. Note that about 60% of our schools are without principal positions. School budgets are being increased, particularly for those offering special programs in English, Science, math, tech-voc, culture, arts, sports and Special Education. We are doing this to enable them to breed more talents and geniuses that we can all be proud of. On the Competency-Based Teacher Standards, through BESRA, there was developed the NCBTS to guide teacher preparation, recruitment, deployment through retirement. Consequently, we have revised our teacher hiring and deployment guidelines, shifting from credentialism to competencybased; we have drafted amendments to the Magna Carta to look after teachers welfare and benefits and there is now an ongoing assessment of teacher competencies vis-à-vis the standards to guide training and development decisions. We have expanded the DepEd Preschool Program last year and we are expanding it even more by about 4 times, especially given the fresh mandate from the President. The curriculum standards we developed will now be recommended for day care centers, private and NGO-run schools offering preschool classes. We are also thinking about convincing our non-deped providers to employ the Grade 1 Readiness Assessment Tool for better handling of pupils. Lastly, we are reviewing our regulatory functions to institute changes in the way permits to operate, recognition and accreditation are done for private preschools. The goal being that of getting value for money and in the process, protect our parents and their children. To address children and youth in difficult circumstances, there are a number of interventions that we have put in place and these are but a few. In response to problems about erroneous textbooks, we have instituted tighter content evaluation procedures starting from subject specialists who will look into the coverage and sufficiency of learning competencies, the material will be handled by an experts team from reputable universities and professional associations for conceptual, factual, pedagogical and grammatical errors, followed by a master s teacher evaluation from the field for cultural and societal appropriateness and followed by language experts for overall grammatical aspects. See how thorough we are now. But wait, we re not done yet. Prior to mass production of the material, we will request a reputable institution to give it a final pass before it reaches the presses. Further, we have unbundled the procurement process into content first and then printing/ 58
87 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education delivery second. As a result of these changes, we believe we have the best books now for the least price. A book now costs P31 versus the P70 and P120 in What do we do with the savings? Of course, we buy more books to ensure universal provision. Just for the record, our system now of textbook procurement is being modeled by World Bank as a best practice in Southeast Asia and Europe. On classrooms, we have completed 14,655 new rooms this school year, and repaired 10,583 more, against our target of 6,000 classrooms. Last year, we also exceeded twice this targeted number. In addition, the rooms we built fully conformed with contract specifications and within contract time. World Bank funded, we are happy to receive recommendation from the Bank on DepEd s school building performance vis-à-vis other agencies. Thanks to all of our partners who supported us, like the Filipino-Chinese Chamber of Commerce, our private sector partners, our ODA partners, and many others like our school principals and field personnel who closely supervised all construction activities. As a result and we are able to sustain this, we are considering reducing class size standards to promote effective learning from 50 children now to 45 in To augment our limited budget, we have ventured into alternative resource generation arrangements from all sides of the society, by maximizing stakeholder participation. For private companies, we have re-energized the Adopt-a-School Program where we provide tax incentives of 150% to our donors. When this program was launched in 2003, DepEd s average contribution ranged from P200M-P300M annually. But with our re-launch of the program in 2006, we have so far generated an unprecedented P4.05B last year alone. Our LGU partners are also worth citing, who have continuously supported DepEd by way of teachers, budgets for supplies, utilities and feeding, to cite a few, including the provision of school sites, and facilitative school site ownership documentation. Last but not least are our ODA partners who continue to prioritize education in the form of grants and budgetary support loans. These are World Bank, ADB, JBIC, AusAID, USAID, UNICEF, UNESCO, governments of Spain, Korea, and many more. Convinced about the global prescription that the integration of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in basic education for instructional purposes and governance is now a standard rather than a whim, 59
88 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy we have bee accelerating various successful ICT interventions. We use ICT to deliver technology-based education, not only in terms of computers, but also using what is available in the community, namely: radio, TV, cassette tapes, human resources all together meant to come up with blended or hi-breed learning solutions to problems of access and quality. We also count on ICT to speed up our training and development activities at a standard quality. The method of cascading training waters down the substance of the training program, but with ICT, we are assured of highest quality of the program. Last but not least, we are working towards using ICT to effectively govern the entire bureaucracy. With the help of management information systems and computer-based operations, we look to the day when we can systematize our operations and promote internal efficiency. What I just shared with you are the BESRA initiatives where we have reached concrete policy work and for which certain instruments have already been prepared. There are many more, but what I just presented are the more major ones. But there are many more that are equally essential. I listed here a few of what keeps DepEd very busy these days. Finally, our reform agenda will not prosper if we do not change certain provisions of existing statutes that impinge on the basic education sector. Legislation must be dynamic and must be reviewed and updated to respond to realities. The most urgent of which are the following: On Preschool, we want to seek Congress support in making preschool a part of the 10-year basic education cycle, so that it should now be K-10. In this manner, we can compel parents to send their 5 year-old children to schools. On the Magna Carta for teachers, we are specifically concerned about the welfare of our teachers. This refers to amending a number of obsolete provisions in the law such as additional compensation like step increments, hardship allowance and overtime pay. We hope that with this action, hard-to-staff schools will lessen. On Education Service Contracting, we are exploring the possibility of using service contracting not only for preschools, high schools and alternative learning, but for elementary education as well. The current laws are unclear about this. On Teacher Licensure, we want to restore the attractiveness of the profession. We want the best and the brightest to enter the teaching profession. We want a 3-stage licensure and qualification system and authentic, 60
89 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education performance-based and competency-based examination, among others. On the allocation of DepEd Capital Outlay, the law should allocate funds based on actual needs or shortages instead of population. On the GSIS Law, the age-old clamor for streamlining GSIS servicing the interest of the teaching and non-teaching personnel of DepEd, which account for about 50% of the entire GSIS membership. In closing, I wish to stress that we need to work together to turn around the performance of the basic education sub-sector in the shortest time possible. The students who are in our system now (all 20M of them), will be the country s work force till Any delay, therefore, in upgrading the quality of our basic education will have serious consequences in the future make up of our country s future state. Finally, I look forward that this Education Summit will bring together our brilliant minds and resources in coming up with ideas and solutions that are out of the box, doable, relevant and sustainable. I also trust that this exchange will not last for this Summit only, but would rather be the start of our fruitful relationship for the cause of education, for the future of this nation. Mabuhay tayong lahat at maraming salamat sa inyong pakikiisa. Secretary Jesli A. Lapus 61
90 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 62
91 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.3 Policies and Programs: Technical Education and Skills Development Authority Hon. Secretary Augusto Syjuco Director General Technical Education and Skills Development Authority I have come today to you to talk about freedom. Because the future does not belong to fear; it belongs to freedom and to those who dare to hope. TRUE FREEDOM What does true freedom look like? Does it look like a voter s ballot? Or a purse full of money? Or a hole in a prison wall? To be free from hunger, strife or want we must guard against bondage of the mind, and thus, a deadness of hope. For true freedom begins with freedom from ignorance. True freedom is achieved only when our minds are transformed by education. We are gathered here today in recognition of this truism. Hope is education and education is hope. This summit is the gateway of Filipino hope. The hope of finishing high school and beyond. The hope for a better life. And a gratifying lifestyle. THE GOAL OF EDUCATION Nearly a century ago, it was widely recognized that better education equals a better job. But the income difference between the average attorney and the average welder today is negligible. Today, uniformity in education is MEDIOCRITY. The world is different. We are different. When one no longer wears a pair of old shoes, although it is not yet worn out or outgrown it does not mean that the old shoes are bad. They just do not do the job any longer. Today, I submit that education to overcome mediocrity must be PURPOSIVE. Because general or shot-gun education, like old shoes, no longer serve our national goals. Today, jobs require training and skills development. 63
92 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy RISING TO THE DEMAND Why so? In the last two years, the top 25 job vacancies here and abroad have been in sectors that require critical skills. For instance, we need to meet education shortfall and produce at least 131,000 household service workers; 100,000 call center workers; 50,000 workers in the construction industry; 44,000 hotel and restaurant workers; and at least 17,000 health professionals. While there are quality jobs available in these sectors, the problem lies in mismatch, or the challenge of filling them up with qualified workers who possess the required new skills and competencies. Thus, we must assure that education and training make individuals employable, help them gain access to relevant work, to escape poverty and marginalization. Hence, our President s call for PURPOSIVE EDUCATION. MAN IN THE MIDDLE This two-day summit will fill in a tall order, and rise to the challenge of synergizing the three components of the Philippine educational system today: basic education, Tek-Bok and higher education. As the man in the middle, TESDA is the fulcrum, the ladder, the bridge, if you may, of the education system. Also, it straddles the education and training, and employment sectors. Today, 48.7% of Tek-Bok graduates find employment within six (6) months to a year after completing training. Tek-Bok today is the best investment that leads jobs to people, people to jobs and enables them to earn income for sustenance, productivity and even for further education. In sum, Tek-Bok plays the crucial and strategic role in human capital formation because it is competency-based and jobs-directed. JOURNEY FROM HOPE What are the imperatives for Tek-Bok? What are the essential next steps in our journey from hope to our common destiny? First, we need to direct Tek-Bok training to highly critical and high- paying jobs vis PGMA Training for Work and Ladderized Education Scholarships. Second, we need to review Tek-Bok offerings and close down irrelevant and obsolete programs. Third, we need to induce the Tek-Bok market towards new program offerings that meet the global demand for workers. Fourth, we need to provide additional scholarships in critical and emerging skills. Finally, we need to strengthen career guidance programs for Best Job Fits. 64
93 , Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education MEETING OUR COMMON DESTINY From hope, we journey forth to meet our destiny a fate shaped by the realities hosted on us by an aging world. In a 2001 report, the US Census Bureau identified Italy, Greece, Sweden, Japan, Spain, Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, France and the United Kingdom as the first 10 countries considered the world s oldest, with a high percentage of their population 65 years and older. In contrast, the average age of Filipinos is 23 years old! Hence, while the advent of globalization, the Philippines has found something akin to oil, gold or diamonds within its borders a young, growing, energetic and English-speaking population. With an estimated demand for four million more workers worldwide from 2006 until 2010 the Philippines is blessed with its destiny as the outsourcer of competent young labor in the aging world, an opportunity we must pursue with ardent fervor. God-fearing, compassionate and loving, industrious, flexible, well-groomed, with hygienic habits, communicative and relatively skilled. Filipinos are carving niches intro traditionally established, and even unorthodox, and unexpected exotic global markets. Australia, with its aging workforce, is so badly in need of additional skilled and even non-skilled workers. Canada --- which also has a very low birth rate --- badly need Filipino workers for the oil sands of Alberta, Saskatchewan, British Columbia and its other provinces. Other countries like China, Malaysia, and Singapore will also be needing the services and expertise of Filipino workers. Brunei needs to hire workers for its oil and gas companies. Europe and the USA need workers in their information technology, manufacturing, medical, health, construction, production, banking, finance, and maritime sectors. The world awaits Filipinos. Japan needs Filipinos. Canada and the USA are looking for Filipinos. New clients in Saudi Arabia require Filipino expertise. Italy prefers Filipinos. Hong Kong continues to hire Filipinos. Our time has come. REACHING OUR DREAM When I was a child, president Quezon called upon my father s generation to fight for freedom. It was the beginning of a great journey, a time of struggle for independence. As a nation, we believed then that we could liberate our people. And we did. But the fight is not finished. The journey is not complete; the march is not over; the promise of freedom is not perfected. Today, we are setting out again, daring to hope, ready to work for freedom. And together under the baton of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo we shall write the next great chapter of 65
94 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Philippine educational history. It is time to reach our for the next dream. It is time to look to our next horizon of education. Fro the Filipino, hope is here. The sun us rising, The best is still to come. And that is for certain. Thank you at Mabuhay ang ating Kabataang Pilipino! Secretary Augusto Boboy L. Syjuco 66
95 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.4 Policies and Programs: Commission on Higher Education Hon. Secretary Romulo L. Neri Chairman, Commission on Higher Education Co-Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education Presented by Hon. Nona S. Ricafort Commissioner, Commission on Higher Education Y our Excellency, Madame President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, distinguished public officials, Hon. DepEd Secretary Jesli Lapus, TESDA Sec. Augusto Boboy Syjuco, USEC Mona Valisno, our colleagues in academe and our partners in the private sector. A pleasant morning! Allow me to take this opportunity to commend all of you for your unwavering dedication and commitment in joining us in this meaningful Education Summit. We also commend your tireless advocacy for education reforms and cooperation. We are appreciative of your continuous support and encouragement. For all these, we are truly grateful. Our concerted efforts have paid off, as shown by the increase in the number of CHED accredited programs, updated/upgraded curricula and standards, improved qualification of faculty, improved facilities, among others. There are however, problems, and challenges that continue to beset our education system. We, the CHED believe that the vision of every Filipino family is to ensure that each son and daughter has the opportunity to get a high quality education that will lead to a productive well-paying job, become a successful entrepreneur and be a responsible citizen. There is the imperative need to provide the opportunity to fulfill this vision of Filipino families since they are the key investors and stakeholders, we need to assure them that their investments in the education of their children will give them the best results in term of returns in the development and growth of their children. As a minimum assurance, we can assure the parents and the students of an accessible and affordable quality education that will serve as a stepping stone to a good future. Sadly, the education life cycle is not without its own challenges. In every level, drop-outs occur and even after tertiary education, we have graduates who find themselves wanting for opportunities to utilize their acquired knowledge and skills. 67
96 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy In line with this, the growth and transition in the landscape of higher education, has to be given very serious attention, in substance, quality and relevance as permanent ingredient in addressing the socio-economic needs of our country. In keeping pace with these developments and challenges, the Philippine Higher Education System at present is confronted with formidable challenges that need to undergo radical transformation and renewal. There is a need for a new vision and paradigm, calling for major changes in policies, practices, systems and networking. CHED needs to introduce efforts in re-engineering the curricula to meet today s challenges, using more focused and appropriate methods that go beyond the traditional cognitive mastery of disciplines designed to address the labor mismatch and industry job requirements. This has brought about the increasing demand for equivalency and accreditation of knowledge, skills and competencies with the provision of lifelong learning opportunities. Our President, herself who is an educator, has to be congratulated for her response by issuing EO 358, known as the Ladderized Education System, a timely response, in the midst of employment problems due to the mismatch of labor and required skills. We all realize what really counts now is what a person knows and what he can do. Multi-skilling and the ability to shift competencies are the requirements of the current times. The importance to give more focus on our human resource development efforts to produce more knowledgeable workers who can have better pay and compete for better opportunities through ladderized education. CHED will now allow Higher education Institutions to ladderize their existing recognized programs without the need for permit or authority from neither CHED nor TESDA: by formally informing CHED of their intent/ commitment and submitting the list of embedded competency skills tech-voc training course with corresponding credit units for each semester. Higher Education Institutions with existing conventional associate or 2 years l adderized certificate courses shall continue to offer said program(s) as recognized by CHED, but should identify the embedded competency skills tech-voc training courses included each semester. This will address the clamor of HEIs to be under CHED s jurisdiction. Providing access to quality education is a major mandate of CHED. At the moment we provide scholarships and financial assistance to about 52,000 students representing one half the total scholars in the country. We are currently taking steps to rationalize our scholarship selection criteria and awards. We are also revising our processes and control for a better scholarship administration. 68
97 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education With regard to low PRC passing rates issues, CHED will review PSGs and CMOs in order to match PRC requirements. Apart from the strengthening of quality assurance for both academic programs and institutions, a pro-active mechanism of revisions will be put in place designed to a) produce graduates with skills that will match with the needs of industry b) qualification that will increase PRC passing rates c) publication of school performance indicators as a guide to parents and students. Another issue of concern: the declining private sector share in the market as a result of the migration of students to the public institutions. As a solution to this migration issue, in order to have a level playing field among SUCs and private HEIs, CHED will look into the implementation of SUCs subsidized tuition fees to be limited to particular course offerings which are within the mandate of each SUCs. All other course offering that are not within their respective mandate will be based on market rates or current average tuition fees being charged by the private HEIs within each region. We also realize the need to address the issue of proliferation of SUCs and LCUS. Likewise, the growing threat posed by cross border providers to local HEIs. Rest assured that we shall effect policy and intervention measure to level the playing field between private and public higher education institutions and improve the regulatory framework for cross border provision. We have also initiated some development programs to assist and enhance the participation of private institutions in higher education which in due time shall be announced. We realize the need for CHED to intensify its efforts to make higher education institutions in the Philippines among the best in Asia and therefore, charts the direction of Philippine tertiary education through its main development thrusts. Quality and Excellence global competitiveness in higher education Relevance and responsiveness to the needs of a dynamic society Access and Equity towards building a just society Efficiency and Effectiveness achieving optimum results from investments in higher education Consistent with its mandate, CHED recognizes its vital role in providing supportive policies for greater access to quality higher education for economic growth. CHED must play a pivotal role in ensuring that we produce globally-competitive graduates and world-class professionals. These challenges 69
98 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy will be a major focus of the plans and agenda on policies and quality administrative support programs of CHED. This is an opportune time when the commission is strongly encouraging higher education institutions to infuse new vigor into the menu of academic excellence. We hope that as we go through the day s task, as we exchange ideas in our workshops, we will keep these thrusts in mind. Commissioner Nona S. Ricafort 70
99 , Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.5 The Updated Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan ( ) for Education Hon. Margarita R. Songco Deputy Director General, National Economic Development Authority ASSESMENT OF KEY BASIC EDUCATION INDICATORS, D eclining performance of basic education based on key indicators for the period Declining trends showed an increased gap between actual performance and targets and a low probability of achieving targets for Assessment of Technical-Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Data showed increased access of Filipinos to TVET through scholarships and student financial assistance programs as indicated below, however only a few benefited from the Iskolar ng Mahihirap na Pamilya Program. a. PESFA beneficiaries for 2005 (13,944), 2006 (13,860) and 2007 (15,262) exceeded annual target of 13,800. b. TESDP beneficiaries for (11,557) surpassed target by 13%. c. For the PGMA-TWSP, 50% graduated out of total enrollees (130,760) from which 48.8% were employed. d. Only 2% benefited from the Iskolar ng Mahihirap na Pamilya Program. e. For the Ladderized Education Program, enrollment increased from 1,863 in 2005 to about 9,560 in Partnerships with institutions likewise increased from 21 ion 2005 to 181 in f. The number of apprentices trained under KasH significantly improved from 21,773 in 2004 to 101,514 in 2005 but decreased to 62,399 in Other data showed the following: a. DTS posted decreasing no of apprentices from 2,866 in 2005 to 472 in b. The annual target of 42,600 Private Education Student Fund Assistance (PESFA) was not achieved in 2005 and
100 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 2. Assessment of Higher Education a. There was a modest increase in higher education enrolment from 2.42 million in 2003 to 2.45 million in b. The graduation rate slightly improved from 15.8% to 17.1%. Table 1: Basic Education Performance (2004 and 2005) vis-à-vis Plan Targets (in %) Basic Education Performance (2004 and 2005) vis-à-vis Plan Targets (in %) PERFORMANCE INDICATOR ACTUAL INDICATIVE TARGET Elem. Sec. Elem. Sec. Elem. Sec. Elem. Sec. Net Intake Rate in Grade Male Female Net Enrollment Ration Male Female Cohort Survival Rate Male Female Dropout Rate Male Female STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE EDUCATION SECTOR a. The need for fiscal reform such as the expansion of the service contracting schemes to cover elementary ECE, EE, ALS and SE. b. The mainstreaming and scaling-up in both the internal planning and budgeting process on the utilization of the validated and tested ADMs. c. The strengthening of the pre-school program, special programs in ESM, technical-vocational, sports; and the acceleration of SPED and ALS. d. SBM needs to be pursued as a quality assurance program. 72
101 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education e. The improvement of class size to promote genuine learning. f. The use of the Mother Tongue as the language of learning in the early grades of basic education. g. The finalization, adoption, and operationalization of the PSDP, for sports development. h. Expansion and more sustainable marketing of TVET. i. All TVET programs should be registered under UTPRAS. j. The strengthening of the voucher system, expanded scholarships and other financial assistance schemes in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. k. Formulation of models of integrating Madrasah education into mainstream higher education based on completed studies and researches. l. ETEEAP should be improved and strengthened to recapture its original vision. m. PNQF should be adopted as basis for the articulation of learning and widening the mobility in NFE, basic, and higher education and TVET. PROPOSED LEGISLATIVE AGENDA a. Amendment of the Teacher Licensure Law b. Strengthening the Education Service Contracting Scheme for Basic Education c. Amendment of RA 4670 Magna Carta of Public School Teachers. d. Amendment of RA 7880 Fair and Equitable Allocation of DECS Budget for Capital Outlay. e. Amendment of RA 7722 (Higher Education Act of 1994) and RA 8292 (Higher Education Modernization Act of 1997) f. Enterprise-based Education and Training Bill g. Tertiary education scholarships and student financial assistance reforms h. Legislation on the typology of higher education institutions i. Enactment of Region XI Regional State University System j. Institutionalizing the coordination, development, planning, and monitoring of the education system. 73
102 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Deputy Director General Margarita R. Songco 74
103 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.6 Policies and Programs Hon. Congressman Del R. De Guzman Chairperson House Committee on Basic Education and Culture House of Representatives L adies and Gentlemen, good afternoon. First I would like to congratulate the men and women who made this event possible. This is very timely as we need to really look closely at our records, statistics and progress: if what we have done in the previous years and what we are doing in the current times, address the needs of the education sector and if our efforts have brought us good results or have landed us to the level of success that we want to achieve? Second, I thank the organizers of the national summit for considering the Committee on Basic Education and Culture as part of the avenues in bringing forth the appropriate changes in the educational system. It has been seven months since the inception of the 14 th Congress and I am honored to announce that the committee on Basic Education and Culture to which I am the Chairperson has already acted on two hundred twenty0 nine (299) house bills: two hundred fifteen (215) of which pertain to the establishment/conversion/renaming of public elementary and high schools while fourteen (14) are bills of national significance. Establishment of new schools: many will thinking that this is parochial in nature and I agree, but this is what we need. There are still school-less barangays and establishment of schools will provide access to education. We need to reach the unreached and undeserved. Measures pertaining to the amendment of the Magna Carta for Teachers should also be given priority attention. Increasing teachers benefits and extending them to their families, and intensifying recognition of their rights are but a few of the prayers of teachers, which we hope to address in our amendment of the law. The Magna Carta for Teachers is already a 42-year-old issue and yet, many of its provisions have not been implemented. On December 11, 2007, the committee had an initial hearing on these bills which prompted the creation of 75
104 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy a technical working group that will review, refine and update the provisions of Republic Act Actually DepEd has started to work on this and we plan to consider their outputs when we convene the TWG so we may come up with fitting provisions to the amended Magna Carta for Public School Teachers in Basic Education. This will definitely entail time and study but we hope to finalize the amendments to the law the soonest. Instituting distance learning: this measure could address our lack of classrooms aside from providing access to education. This will be advantageous to children of high schools age who are prevented from attending classes regularly because they are geographically distant from the nearest school or household responsibilities; youthful offenders who cannot attend conventional classes because they are detained in correctional institutions or rehabilitation centers or those hampered by armed conflicts are likely to benefit from this bill. The concern over the provision of basic and functional literacy for the attainment of education for all was one of the first batches of bills that was deliberated upon and approved by the committee. The Department of Education has adopted several policies and strategies to accelerate literacy development efforts and the committee in the lower house has continually supported this effort with the approval of the bill that will strengthen the literacy coordinating council, even the institutionalization of the alternative learning systems bill faces the possibility of its being achieved in the 14 th Congress. Bills seeking for the institutionalization of preschool education, English as medium, of instruction, expansion of scholarship opportunities under the government assistance for students and teachers in private education, the promotion and strengthening of our cultural values, heritage and practices are among hose listed in our calendar for deliberation next by our committee. Our legislative agenda are in consonance with government s development goals and we are working towards UNESCO s aim in attaining education for all by the year We have so many programs and projects that focus on basin education concerns but despite all our efforts, we are still confronted with issues and problems that beset basic education. The Philippines ahs the shortest term of basic education compared to our neighboring Asian countries, and there are measures that seek to increase wither the elementary or high school levels to total to twelve (12) years instead of only ten (10) years. 76
105 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education These are highly researchable issues but may I share that during my time, schools did not have much problems with their students, and majority of the graduates before had excelled in the fields they had chosen to trek. Do you think that adding another level or two will solve the problem of competency? We have so many dreams for our children, our youth, we want to mainstream them so they can catch up with the demands of the times. It has not been easy for us before and it will definitely not be easy for us now but let us not be disheartened by the boulders that block our paths towards the attainment of education for all and the upliftment of the lives of our people by providing them education. We will use these obstacles as tests, as challenges and as inspiration for our quest to eradicate illiteracy. Our aim: to teach every Filipino how to read, how to write, how to count and how to immerse him/herself in social activities. We will go back to the basics if the basics is where strong foundation should be established. The Legislative undertaking of the committee on basic education of the lower house does not confine itself to basic education concerns alone, it extends towards lifelong learning and sustainable development. We remain to be active partners in various discussion groups and functions set by our counterpart in the DepEd, UNESCO-UNACOM, Private organizations and other agencies and sectors as society. We see to it that we gather as mush information as we can so we may be effective in our legislative work. We are all human resources in the educational field and we have banded ourselves into work forces that transcend all areas from the Higher Education Chairperson, Technical-Vocational Director-General, the Secretary of Education down to the last preschool teachers and now even instructional managers. In all our trials in this field, we have our tasks to perform and have to perform them well.. not according to what we want but what the people want; not only for our sake but because it will be beneficial to many; and not because it places us to a pedestal because of our accomplishments but because it gives another Filipino a face, a life, a soul. 77
106 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Congressman Del R. de Guzman 78
107 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.7 Policies and Programs Hon. Congresswoman Cynthia A. Villar Chairperson, House Committee on Higher and Technical Education House of Representatives I t is a great pleasure to take part in this gathering of people responsible for doing something about the educational system of our country. And I know that we are here because we want to contribute something positive towards improving the Philippine educational system. This is imperative because no country can succeed without educating its people; education is key to sustaining growth and reducing poverty. With this in my mind, the House Committee o Higher and Technical Education has set forth a legislative agenda, which hopes to address the most immediate needs of the higher education sector. To provide an overview, bills that have been filled in this 14 th Congress cover several subject mattes which I shall mention, not necessarily in order of importance. These include: a. Open or Distance Learning b. Ladderized Education c. Continuing Teacher Education d. Amending the UP Charter, which is considered a priority legislation e. Student assistance or loans f. English as medium of instruction g. Amendment of GASTPE Law (RA 8545) or the Expanded Government Assistance to Students and Teachers In Private Education h. Revision of CHED Charter, and Promotion of Science and Technology OPEN OR DISTANCE LEARNING AND LADDERIZED EDUCATION Reality still shows that geography is destiny and where you are born determines what your opportunities are. Education is a key investment to 79
108 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy break the cycle of poverty and provide people with opportunities. In a country like the Philippines where there are still large segments of the population who live in areas bereft of roads, electricity, and classrooms; being able to access education through distance learning should be made a real option. Furthermore, with very low-income levels, many are unable to immediately pursue college degrees that they truly desire. The need for immediate employment often dictates the choice of courses. Thus the need for distance learning and an efficient and effective ladderized education, which will provide more Filipinos the opportunity to access higher levels of education and skills not initially available to them due to limited opportunities. Toward this end, my office is currently drafting bills that will institutionalize and further strengthen both these systems. And we hope that we will be able to gain insights and gather inputs from this summit regarding proposals in the improvement of application of the ladderized system as well as the open learning and/or distance education. A bill on open learning ahs been filed by Rep. Reno Lim, HB No or An Act Institutionalizing the Open Electronic Learning School System in the Philippines,.. seeks to deliver educational advancement to Filipino students through the use of alternative means of instruction such as print, radio, television, and other multi-media learning and teaching technologies that allow students to study on their own without having to attend class in the conventional classroom set-up. It shall apply to public secondary and tertiary educational institutions with existing distance learning programs and all other such institutions that shall later be authorized as qualified to implement the System. CONTINUING EDUCATION OF COLLEGE TEACHERS Teachers bear the responsibility of educating our youth. We therefore have to equip them with the necessary knowledge and skills to keep them abreast with global trends and let them stay way ahead of their students. With the view that an improved quality of faculty in the tertiary level will redound to an improved quality of education, three (3) house bills have been filed on the subject, to wit: HB No. 113, authored by Rep. Angara and HB 1870 authored by Rep. M. Defensor, both titled An Act Instituting A Program For the Continuing Education of College Teachers, Amending For Such Purpose Republic Act No. 7784, Otherwise Known As An Act Strengthening Teacher 80
109 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Education in the Philippine By Establishing Centers of Excellence, Creating A Teacher Education Council for the Purpose, Appropriating Funds Therefore, And For Other Purposes; and HB No or An Act Establishing A Center For The Teacher s Excellence in All The Legislative Districts Throughout the Country And Appropriating Funds Therefore was filed by Rep. I. Arroyo. HB Nos. 113 and 1879 seek to instate training program for teachers in the tertiary level to upgrade their competence as this will contribute in improving the quality of tertiary education in the country. R.A or the Act Strengthen Teacher Education in the Philippines by Establishing Centers of Excellence, Creating a Teacher Education Council for the Purpose,.. covers only those teachers at the elementary and secondary levels. Thus, the bill proposes that Section 2(a) of RA 7784 be amended to include teachers in All levels of instruction including persons performing guidance and counseling, instructional supervision in all private pr public education institutions, Graduates of education who have passed the government examination for teachers although not actually employed as such, are hereby included in this definition. HB No seeks to establish a Center for Teachers Excellence in all legislative districts throughout the country. The purpose of such centers is to conduct a continuing training program to upgrade the teaching skills and competence of all teachers in all levels. AMENDING THE CHARTER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES The legislation amending the UP Charter has been certified by the Office of the President as an urgent bill. The proposed bill aims to strengthen UP as the national university in the country, amending for the purpose its archaic 1908 Charter. As UP celebrates its centennial anniversary this year, the bill is foreseen to usher the university into its next century with a new Charter that will make UP more adaptable, more relevant and even more globally competitive. In brief, the bill emphasizes the values of academic freedom, academic excellence, social responsibility, democratic participation and access, ethics and autonomy as guiding principles in the life of the University of the Philippines. It creates the system University Council to serve as the inter-university 81
110 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy academic body to set system-wide academic rules and standards and to reconcile differences among the autonomous university councils. It distributed functions of university governance to the Board of Regents, the President and other administrators, and the university councils; allows the faculty, students, alumni and non-teaching staff representation in the Board. STUDENT ASSISTANCE OR LOANS Various bills have been filed to address the increasing demand for financial assistance to students in the tertiary level. These include: HB 716 Student Financial Assistance for Students of Economically Disadvantaged Families which I filed in view of imitations and inadequacy of the existing scholarship programs of the government (CHED Scholarship program, ETSDA scholarship program, study grant for members of indigenous communities and scholarship for those specially gifted children). There is no ambitious government program that takes care of the mass of secondary level graduates who want to pursue higher education, but fail to do so because of poverty or financial difficulties. The educational assistance program in this bill is particularly designated for students of financially disadvantaged families and is intended more as an economic aid rather than a merit award. HB 492 Student Loan Program Act filed by Rep. Puentevella envisions the local government units as the partner in promoting education that could uplift the standard of living and improve the quality of life of Filipinos. The bill provides that each Local Government Unit can initiate a Student Loan Program by the passage of a local ordinance creating a Student Loan Fund to be administered jointly by their local school board and the local provincial, municipal or city treasurer. Thereafter, the local government shall apply for financing of this program from the DILG by the submission to the DILG of a copy of their local ordinance creating the Student Loan Fund and a feasibility of the operation of their student loan program. HB 237 Comprehensive Study-Now-Pay-Later Program by Rep. R. Rodriguez seeks to establish an enhanced educational assistance program that could increase the prospects of poor but deserving students of acquiring quality education. Under this bill, A Study-Now- Pay-Later Loan Fund will be created to be managed by an Educational Loan Fund Authority that will be responsible in implementing a comprehensive program for the effective disposition of the Fund for loans 82
111 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education to qualified loan applicants and develop a system of effective repayments of the loans. There is also HB 2093 Reformed Study Now Pay Later Plan Act of 2007 filed by Rep. M. Teodoro. The bill seeks to assist and support poor but deserving students wanting to pursue a post-secondary education through the strengthening of the Study Now Pay Later Plan. The bill provides the creation of a Loan Trust Board tasked to effectively manage the disbursement of loans to students and ensure collection and non-depletion of the Fund through the facilities of BIR, GSIS, SSS and NBI. USE OF ENGLISH AS A MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION The bills on the subject are primarily referred to the Committee on Basis Education and secondarily referred to the Committee on Higher and Technical Education. This is a shared legislative agenda for education. Under this subject matter, HB Nos, 230, 305 have been filed by Reps. Villafuerte and Gullas and soon I will be filing as well An Act To Strengthen And Enhance The Use of English As The Medium Of Instruction in the Philippines. The bills propose that we regain the mastery of the English language and improve the total learning process in our schools, especially in our public schools, to ensure better education for the Filipino students and enhance their competitiveness in the global arena. The Medium of Instruction in all subjects taught shall be as follows: a. English, Filipino or the regional/native language maybe used as medium of instruction in all subjects from pre-school until Grade II. b. English and Filipino shall be taught as separate subjects in all levels in the elementary and secondary. c. In all academic subjects in the elementary grades from Grade III to Grade VI and in all levels in the secondary, the medium of instruction shall be English. d. In the tertiary level, the current language policy as prescribed by CHED shall be maintained. e. In addition to formal instruction, the use of English shall be encouraged as a language of interaction in school. The organization of English clubs, such as book, oratorical, debating, writing and related associations shall be encouraged. In school publications, the use of English shall be given priority, as far as practicable. 83
112 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy AMENDMENT OF GASTPE OR THE EXPANDED GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE TO STUDENTS AND TEACHERS IN PRIVATE EDUCATION ACT. The bills that have been filed are jointly referred to the Committee on Basic Education and the Committee on Higher and Technical Education. These are HB Nos. 320 by Rep. Tañada and 1368 by Rep. C. Reyes. The bills, currently pending with the Committee on Basic Education, seek to amend certain sections of Republic Act. No or the GASTPE Law. The proposed amendments in the bills are aimed at correcting the inadequacies of the present law and further improving the voucher system of tuition fee payment under the GASTPE law. 84 HB 320 intends to provide a mechanism whereby different sectors of the educational system can equally exercise their rights to express their positions in any proposed increase in the rate of tuition and other school fees. It specifically seeks to amend Section 10 of the GASTPE Law by requiring that a comprehensive and appropriate consultation shall be conducted at least six months prior to any proposed implementation of an increase in the rate of tuition fee and/or other school fees by the school administration with the duly organized parents and teacher associations, faculty and non-academic faculty associations with respect to elementary and secondary schools, and with students, governments, or councils, alumni, faculty and non-academic faculty associations with respect to college., HB 1368 proposes to increase the amount of financial assistance under the voucher support system provided to secondary and tertiary students to ensure that the financial assistance shall meet the growing needs of students. Under this bill, the programs for assistance to students shall be based on a set of criteria which shall include, among others, tuition fees charged by the schools, socio-economic needs of each region, giving priority to fifth and sixth class municipalities, overall performance of private schools, as well as the ratio of public schools vis-à-vis private schools and size of student population in the public schools in the area. PROMOTION OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY The leaps in information, science and technology have been enormous in the past decades. In order for the Philippines to attain global competitiveness, it is imperative that we provide greater focus and incentives to the study of science and technology. With this in view, the following bills have
113 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education been filed: HB No. 442 or the Act Establishing And Providing For Free College Education in Information And Communications Technology And Other Purposes was filed by Rep. Del Mar; and HB No. 553 by Rep Plaza is An Act Providing For the Establishment OF A National Scholarship Program For College Students in Science and Technology Courses In Every Municipality Of Every Province Of the Country. HB 442 seeks to provide a two-year free post-secondary education in Information and Communications Technology in identified state colleges and universities to those qualified graduates of public high schools in order to make available a continuing pool of trained manpower to the demands of the current highly competitive labor market as well as contribute to the country s development efforts. HB 553 proposes to select annually from the graduating classes of all public and private high schools in every municipality of the country, a poor but deserving student who shall be granted scholarships in science and technology courses. The proposed scholarship intends to cover tuition and other related school fees, book allowance, and monthly stipend for living expenses. AMENDMENT TO RA 7722 OR THE ACT CREATING CHED By virtue of the passage of RA 7722, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) was created as an independent body, separate and distinct from the DepEd (formerly known as DECS) and attached to the Office of the President. CHED is the agency responsible for and have jurisdiction over both public and private higher education institutions of learning as well as degree-granting programs in post-secondary educational institutions. Over the past years, CHED has experienced difficulties in the execution of its functions due to its limitations. Thus, there is a need to rationalize the authority of the Commission considering the various challenges that it faces today. Currently, two (2) bills have been filed on the subject by Reps. Lacson and Velarde. We hope to file a more adaptable bill on the subject upon the conclusion of this summit by incorporating the inputs from the workshops. I have just given you an overview of the legislative agenda of the 14 th congress. I am not an educator by profession and neither are most of my colleagues in the House of Representatives. That is why we consider this 85
114 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy national consultation a timely event. We keenly await the insights and output from the various practitioners and the workshop participants in the education sector. These will provide valuable inputs to our work to enable us to craft relevant and responsive pieces of legislation. I wish you all a most productive conference. Thank you and good day. Congresswoman Cynthia A. Villar 86
115 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 1.8 Vision for Education Hon. Senator Allan Peter S. Cayetano Chairman Senate Committee on Education Senate of the Philippines S enator Allan Peter Cayetano said that if education is indeed the true priority of the country, then it has to take aggressive steps and put the money where its mouth is. He showed concern by emphasizing the insufficiency of the initiatives to address the current crisis or state of our education which are increasing tremendously with the population growing by the million yearly. According to him, out of 30M Filipino people, between the age of 6-26, 11M are out of school. Out of 10 children who enter elementary schools, 7 graduate from the same level, 5 graduate from high school, and 2 graduate from college. And if the statistics are right, then the government must be on the panic mode to be able to resolve the problem on education. Furthermore, the government and all stakeholders must equally share in the burden of resolving the problem of education and one best example is the adopt-a-school program. It is not enough that we state or make pronouncements over our concern with education but to make it a priority. Quite simply, an equal action must be taken now. If all of us work together, and make education the priority of the country, we will really be a first-world nation during the period as what is envisioned by the present administration. Senator Cayetano suggested to create the vision and the momentum. He quoted a statement from Hillary Clinton when she said that it takes a village to raise a child and then explained her programs. But the country can do better by having a program that is not owned by any party, any politician, any secretary, any senator, or congressman. Instead, we should develop a program NOTE: This is an excerpt from the extemporaneous speech of the Hon. Senator Allan Peter S. Cayetano delivered during the First Biennial National Congress for Education, January 31, 2008 at the Manila Hotel Tent City, Manila. 87
116 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy that is owned by all of us and that can be sold to every parent, to every government official, to every church leader, and to everyone of us. Senator Cayetano thought that when the government started the effort of putting the most important secretaries, Sec. Lapus, Sec. Neri, and Sec. Syjuco, and introduced him as the Chair of the Education Committee, the most powerful committee in the Senate, then indeed, education has become the priority of this country. He believes that education has not been the priority of past administrations, politicians and policymakers. And so he urged all to decide and urgently make education as the top priority of the country to reveal its real substance and better serve the whole Philippines. We should now create the momentum. Senator Allan Peter S. Cayetano 88
117 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Chapter 2 Proceedings of the Workshops Chapter 2 consolidates the proceedings and output of the different workshops during the First Biennial National Education Congress. A total of seven workshops were held during the Congress. 2.1 Achieving full support of Stakeholders to Basic Education 2.2 Improving Teacher Competencies and Faculty Development 2.3 Harmonizing Technical Education and Higher Education 2.4 Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and Industry 2.5 Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and PRC to Meet the Needs of Industry 2.6 Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of the Three Education Agencies of Government 2.7 Financial Assistance to Private Education and Budgetary Appropriations to SUCs 89
118 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy "Most models [of learning] assume that the purpose of learning is to incorporate new information or skills into the learner's existing knowledge structure and to make that knowledge accessible.... Learning begins with the need for some motivation, an intention to learn. The learner must then concentrate attention on the important aspects of what is to be learned and differentiate them from noise in the environment. While those important aspects are being identified, the learner accesses the prior knowledge that already exists in memory, because a key to learning is connecting what is known to what is being learned. New information must be processed, structured, and connected in such a way as to be accessible in the future; this process is known as encoding. The deeper the processing of the information in terms of its underlying organization, the better the learning and later retrieval of that information. This processing requires active involvement. The learner must verify an understanding of the structure by receiving feedback, from the internal and external environments, on the encoding choices made. -Marilla Svinicki, Anastasia Hagen and Debra Meyer 90
119 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2.1 Achieving full support of Stakeholders to Basic Education Chairman: Dr. Patricia B. Licuanan, Miriam College President Co-Chairman: Dr. Vilma L. Labrador, Department of Education Undersecretary Rapporteur/Facilitator/Consolidator: Ms. Carmela C. Oracion, Ateneo de Manila University Assistant to the President for Basic Education Presidential Task Force for Education Convenor: Hon. Jesli A. Lapus, Secretary, Department of Education RATIONALE T he vision of every Filipino family is to ensure that each son or daughter has the opportunity to get a high quality education that will make him or her a whole person and lead him or her to a productive, well-paying job or become a successful entrepreneur. This vision has been expressed concretely by the Presidential Task Force for Education in terms of a successful completion of THE MAIN EDUCATION HIGHWAY. The successful completion of the main education highway requires the successful completion, at the very least, of the foundational stages of the education highway the pre-school, elementary and high school levels or, the basic education component of the education highway. A close look at how Philippine elementary and secondary public education has been over the past decades will show an emerging pattern a few bright lights and victories and a mass of poor performance. We can be very proud of the bright lights and victories every now and then but the country will march as fast as the majority of our students and not at the pace of the few at the top (Nebres, 2008). Since about 92% of Filipino school children are enrolled in public elementary and high schools, it is imperative that we give due attention to public basic education, if this country is to move forward. A study commissioned by the Ateneo de Manila in the 1990's (Licuanan, 1995) showed that what differentiated high performing public elementary 91
120 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy schools from low performing ones, given the same economic and demographic situation, was the leadership of the principal and the support of the community. Community support is an important factor in the school improvement process. All stakeholders have an important role to play in addressing the concerns in the components of the main education highway that constitute basic education. As the saying goes, it takes a village to raise a child. It is for this reason that one of the key components of the First Biennial National Congress on Education is a workshop on achieving the full support of stakeholders to basic education. Achieving the full support of stakeholders to basic education can make a big difference in attaining high quality education, dramatically increasing student achievement and retention rates as well as achieving a zero drop-out rate by fully implementing innovative retrieval programs. While depressing statistical figures and reports on the state of public basic education in the Philippines continue to discourage us, we look forward to a better future through inspiring results from initiatives like the TEEP School Based Management Approach, the Math Lesson Guides, the focus of Synergeia Foundation on building leadership and community support, the work of Project SPEEd and the ACED (cf. The Main Education highway : Addressing Stakeholders Support for Basic Education, Nebres, 2008). A concerted, systematic and sustained effort on the part of various stakeholders supporting basic education can pave the way towards a significant improvement of the quality of basic education in the country. GOALS The following goals were set for Workshop 1: a. Standardize the pre-school curriculum that will equip 5-year old pupils for Grade 1 and transfer the general supervision from Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD)/ Local Government Units (LGUs) to Department of Education (Dep Ed). b. Strengthen the implementation of the school-based management project or Basic Education Reform Agenda (BESRA) to empower schools to make informed and local decisions based on their individual needs. c. Strengthen support of stakeholders: Local Government Units, Parents, Community, Business and Industries and other key players to sustain high quality education, increase retention rate and fully implement retrieval programs to dramatically reduce drop-outs. Four guide questions were formulated to facilitate the workshop 92
121 < Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education discussion: 1. What concrete steps can be taken to strengthen the current programs implemented by the barangay day-care centers and pre-schools so that these develop into more formal and effective pre-schools? 2. What concrete interventions can be implemented to eliminate drop-outs from the different grade and year levels? 3. What more can be done to continuously improve student performance on the Division Achievement Tests and National Achievement Tests? 4. How can the National Career Assessment Exams be used effectively to identify students skills and attitudes towards moving on to either college or technical-vocational options? WORKSHOP DISCUSSIONS Workshop 1 had four major areas of discussion: 1. Standardization of the Pre School Curriculum, 2. Reduction of Drop-out and Improvement of Retention Rates, 3. Improvement of Student Achievement, and 4. the National Career Assessment Examination (NCAE). It was also emphasized that all recommendations and proposed interventions should be within the context of the BESRA framework. 1. Standardization of the pre-school curriculum to prepare 5-year old pupils for entrance to Grade 1 and eventually add one year to the basic education cycle a. Hold consultative conferences or dialogues with the local government units, DSWD and other stakeholders initiated by DepEd for developing specific guidelines for the implementation of EO 685: Expanding the Pre-school coverage to include children enrolled in day-care centers b. Reach out to all 45 thousand day-care centers c. Prepare materials using mother languages for pre-school education d. Take advantage of available classrooms in private schools for use as pre-school classrooms 2. Reduction of drop-out and improvement of retention rates a. Involve parents, communities, alumni and business establishments in 93
122 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy addressing the problem b. Develop incentives for keeping the children in school e.g. feeding programs, livelihood for parents, etc. c. Develop safety nets for disadvantaged children to keep them in school d. Enhance mechanisms for involving children actively in the teaching and learning process e.g. peer educators, members of student organizations e. Prepare home study programs to address inevitable absenteeism due to anticipated realities (e.g. planting and harvest season) f. Strengthen tracking systems for monitoring student progress e.g. transition meetings, adopt-a-child scheme as well as tracking the progress of schools and clusters of schools 3. Improvement of student achievement, as reflected in performance in the Division Achievement Tests and National Achievement Tests a. Implement the recommendations on mother language in BESRA b. Strengthen the leadership of the school principal and the involvement of the community in every school c. Empower school principals d. Conduct renewal activities for principals and teachers that will touch their hearts and renew their passion for education e. Look into the effectiveness of the Division Achievement Test (DAT) and National Achievement Test (NAT) themselves as well as testing practices f. Strike a good balance between testing and teaching to avoid teaching to the test g. Enrich practices related to assigning student projects (e.g. projects making use of recycled materials for urban areas and indigenous materials for rural areas) h. Explore the use of relevant arts, arts that cultivate creativity i. Look into the specific needs of various ethnic groups j. Strengthen programs such as the Adopt-A-School Program by enhancing incentives to stakeholders supporting Basic Education e.g. from tax incentives to tax credits 4. The National Career Assessment Examination (NCAE) Some concerns were raised about the NCAE s usefulness and relevance in its present form and implementation. Some questionable practices were 94
123 < < Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education reported such as some divisions and regions publishing results and ranking (e.g. Elite 99) thus giving the exam the semblance of an achievement test. The administration of the NCAE in 4 th year high school seemed rather late if its goal is to look into the students aptitudes and interests. a. Revisit the purpose of the NCAE and evaluate its implementation. b. Inform everyone about the purpose of the NCAE and address attitudes towards blue collar jobs. c. Train guidance counselors to process the results of the NCAE and to orient parents about the results. d. Explore a more appropriate name for NCAE to fully reflect its purpose e. Use the scholastic aptitude part to track school performance. RECOMMENDATIONS AND ACTION POINTS 1. While working on the standardization of the pre-school curriculum and the transfer of the general supervision of the day-care centers from the DSWD/LGUs to DepEd, strengthen the existing day-care centers and pre-schools. Action points : a. By March 2008, generate a data base of existing barangay/dswd day-care centers and pre-schools. b. By April 2008, conduct an inventory of good pre-school education materials that can be provided to the day-care centers/ pre-schools by interested stakeholders c. By April 2008, map out concrete assistance for these barangay/dswd day-care centers by identifying organizations and stakeholders who can provide the needed assistance to specific pre-schools or clusters of pre-schools/ day-care centers d. By June 2008, conduct training for pre-school/day-care-center in charge and distribute these materials <Persons and Offices In Charge : Presidential Task Force for Education (PTFE) (Fr. Nebres), DepEd, DSWD, interested stakeholders 2. To minimize drop-outs and improve retention rates, to improve performance in the DAT and NAT and student achievement in general, it is important to recognize the following: 95
124 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy a. important and critical role of the school principal and involvement of the community b. importance of collaborating with local governments Action points: a. Beginning SY , systematically conduct empowerment programs for school principals to widen their horizons and renew their sense of passion and commitment. b. Beginning April 2008, systematically organize dialogues between DepEd officials and local government executives. c. Beginning May 2008, start generating a data base of success stories in order to create a pool of resource persons for these empowerment programs and dialogues. d. By June 2008, begin a systematic review of the NAT and the DAT as well as related practices in measuring student achievement. e. By June 2008, begin a systematic review of the National Career Assessment Examination to revisit its purpose and evaluate its implementation. Persons and Offices In Charge : PTFE (Fr. Nebres), DepEd, Local Government Units, interested stakeholders. 3. Local and targeted solutions are more helpful than one-size-fits all approaches. It is thus, important to agree on Grand Schemes that are general enough to specific interventions and programs in the local communities. Such Grand Schemes include: a. Recognizing the important and crucial role of the School Principals b. Involving the entire school community in school development efforts c. Prioritizing the basic needs (e.g. classrooms, books, Lesson Guides for Teachers) over other interventions (e.g. technology, extra-curricular activities like Ms. Bagong Ilog,etc) d. Setting appropriate metrics to monitor the attainment of goals, following through and tracking developments (specific scores versus district-wide or division-level or regional or national averages) e. Listening to inputs of people out in the field and taking advantage of the competence of master elementary and high school master teachers collaborating closely with local governments 96
125 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Action points: a. Right after this summit, promote the Grand Schemes systematically to all stakeholders so that while different agencies and organizations have their respective mandates and specific focus, these Grand Schemes serve as guiding principles to help realize goals on a large scale. b. By June 2008, generate data on the performance of schools in the NAT or DAT over the past three years as well as other indicators to serve as basis for clustering schools into categories to help identify concrete interventions for each cluster. This can serve as a clear guide for various agencies and organizations in identifying or supporting concrete interventions. c. By June 2008, generate a master list of all organizations doing work towards the development of public basic education and identify concrete steps that can be taken to orient everyone on the Grand Schemes promote synergy and in the process intensify these various involvements. Persons and Offices In Charge : PTFE (Fr. Nebres), DepEd, interested stakeholders 97
126 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 98
127 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2.2 Improving Teacher Competencies and Faculty Development Chairman: Dr. Rosita Navarro, Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities-Commission on Audit Chairman Co-Chairman: Dr. Vivien M. Talisayon, University of the Philippines, College of Education Dean Rapporteur: Dr. Paz I. Lucido, Philippine Association for Teacher Education President Facilitator/Consolidator: Prof. Pilar A. Bautista, Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President of the Philippines Presidential Task Force for Education Convenor: Dr. Jose V. Abueva, Kalayaan College President RATIONALE Teachers, from all education levels perform gargantuan tasks of creating conditions and developing processes for building the human skills and capacities that are considered to be indispensable for economic growth, prosperity, social well-being, and individual development. It is but right to view, in any national education system world wide, that teachers are considered the most important element where educational quality is concerned. The many studies and/or surveys showed that practically all reform efforts in both developed and developing countries assume that the most direct and effective way of raising instructional quality, in all levels, is to introduce changes in teacher education and recruitment, to improve the knowledge and pedagogical skills of in-service teachers, and to ensure that the organizational conditions under which teachers work promote effective instruction and focus on student learning outcomes. It is in this accord that the goals for the First Biennial National Congress on Education has drawn the goals challenged by the over-riding national education goal of achieving a zero dropout and higher performance of students and pupils in all levels, public and private. A number of issues and concerns has been reviewed in the light of the Philippine Commission on Education Reforms (PCER) recommendations. It serves as the overall agenda for reform to implement the Main Educational Highway conceptualized to 99
128 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy ensure that the vision of every Filipino family is achieved such that each son or daughter has the opportunity to get a high quality education that will make him/her a whole person and lead him/her to a productive, well-paying job and become a successful, entrepreneur. GOALS Workshop 2 topic focused on the two dimensions of improving the competencies of teachers in each of the two educational levels: basic education and the tertiary level which includes the Technical Education Skills and Development. The two dimensions are: Pre-service Training (PRESET) and the In-Service Training (INSET). Workshop 2 specific goals/concerns are: a. Promote CPE (Continuing Professionals Education) of teachers and faculty in all levels b. Adopt an appropriate curriculum design, content, teaching methodologies and assessment systems for in-service and pre-service training of teachers c. Emphasize English, Math, and Science and Technology in basic and tertiary education curricula d. Strengthen coordination with accredited TEIs (Teachers Education Institutions), COEs (Center of Excellence), CODs (Center of Development), autonomous and deregulated colleges and universities in the implementation of Teacher Education programs and Trainings, In-Service and Pre-Service Trainings e. Design and implement a tracking system for implementation of minimum academic qualifications of faculty members in public and private Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). f. Design an implementation plan for the National Competency-Based Teacher Standards (NCBTS) to provide teachers with new and expanded skills including the use of instructional technology, alternative mode of delivery using e-learning technologies or facilities g. Review teachers qualifications and ranking classifications and institutionalize rewards systems for exemplary performance in teaching, research, and extension services. h. Adopt a competitive salary scale for teachers in public education institutions including State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) based on performance to attract and keep the 0best educators 100
129 < Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education TEACHER COMPETENCIES AND FACULTY DEVELOPMENT 1. Teacher Competencies As per PCER proposal on the strengthening Teacher Competencies at the Basic Education level in the twenty first century, the teachers need new and expanded skills besides just knowledge of the subject matter. They need to be empowered in the following key result areas: The PCER report states the four capabilities of basic education teachers that should be developed translated into Key Result Areas (KRA). KRA1: Adeptness in the use and adaptation of new learning technologies as a means of enhancing the teacher-learning process KRA2: Mastery of traditional subject matter and capability to understand and analyze situations (reading comprehension is seen as a key tool) KRA3:Development of a way of thinking that is creative, constructive, and critical. KRA4: Development of a values education teacher imbued with the ideals of integrity, honesty, patriotism, and work values. The pupil of the future must have the ability to live in harmony amidst diversity, the non-violent management of conflict and the ethical anchors which must guide his thinking and acting. PCER had also recommended the following: a. TEIs should review their curricula using the PROBE model to turn out teachers that already have these capabilities. b. There was an observed inefficiency of the delivery of teacher training programs by the Government. PCER recommended the implementation of an in-service training program called TEACH (Teacher Empowerment to Achieve Competence and Humaneness). The objective of Project TEACH is to strengthen the competencies of teachers who are already in the field (in-service level), the project aims to develop the teacher as: (1) an IT teacher, who is adept at using new learning technologies as a means of enhancing the teachinglearning process; (2) a reading teacher; (3) a critical/analytical and creative thinker, and (4) a values education teacher imbued with the ideals of integrity, honesty and patriotism and the like. For this project, needs assessment will be conducted by the superintendents of 143 school divisions. c. Tie-ups were envisioned by PCER with the National Educators Academy of the Philippines, existing TEIs and with centers of excellence. 101
130 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 2. Faculty Development The Proposal of PCER for Faculty Development at the Tertiary Level (PCER Report 2000) underscored that the quality of higher education in any institution depends on the quality of its faculty. For this reason the government has prescribed that teachers at the tertiary level must have a Master s degree in the field in which they teach. Unfortunately only about one third of college faculty members in the Philippines have this credential. The proposed efforts will be directed towards increasing the number of tertiary-level teachers who possess a Master's degree (at present only 33% out of 80,000 have such a degree). The level of teaching and research capabilities will be raised particularly in the following areas: Science, Mathematics, Engineering and Information Technology, Business and Management, English, Social Sciences, History and Values Education. The objective of the faculty development is to implement a study program that will enhance the teachers capability and allow them to obtain a master s degree in the areas that they are teaching. The main target of the program is to enhance and deepen the teachers knowledge of the subjects that they teach using or adopting innovative approaches in order to reach the teachers in the different regions. An example is the modular programs carried out by the COEs or CODs and given credits towards a master s degree. The modules, to be developed by the COE/COD with existing accredited master s program, may be offered during the weekends or vacation breaks. CHED also recommends a double-degree program for Teacher Education: AB/BS-BSE curriculum (enable graduates to obtain two degrees: AB or BS and BSEED with one major in one of the three fields: English, Math and Science In this regard CHED has identified schools and programs that will form the network to implement the faculty development program. A consortium was also encouraged within the network to widen the reach of various master's/ doctoral programs. COEs and CODs are commissioned to become program providers, e.g. development of modules for master's programs, which may be either thesis or non-thesis, full-time or part-time study, conveniently scheduled on weekends and vacation breaks. The scheme is expected to reach teachers in the different regions. Cross-registration will also be encouraged. 102
131 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education WORKSHOP PROCEEDINGS 1. Pre-Workshop The series of meetings and consultations carried out by the PTFE with Stakeholders represented by Experts/Consultants & Practitioners resulted to identifying several targets. These targets serve as the basis for the discussion and planning during the workshop proper. The targets as concerns, however, do not delimit or restrict the participants and workshop committees from discussing or including other relevant concerns particularly on the status or problems of implementing programs and/or projects related to improving teacher competencies or faculty development Teacher Competencies By end of 2008: a. DEPED & CHED to have synchronized curriculum design and content and improved teaching methodologies and assessment system for in-service and pre-service training of teachers; b. DEPED should have strengthened the implementation of the school-based management (SBM) project or the Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda (BESRA), empowering the schools to make informed and local decisions based on individual needs in their locality. c. DEPED should have institutionalized the NCBTS to provide teachers with new and expanded skills including the use of instructional technology, alternative mode of delivery using e-learning technologies or facilities; d. DEPED should have upgraded significantly the competencies of teachers especially the teaching of English in the basic education level; e. A close coordination and monitoring mechanism should have been installed to both DEPED and CHED with NEETS; f. All levels (Basic, Tertiary and Tech Voc), together with the OPAE, should have established a Knowledge Management Systems for databases, electronic journals, virtual library, and other technical education information, etc., on Philippine Education and Industry towards the development of an information society Faculty Development By end of 2008: a. CHED and its Technical Panels should have developed programs that will equip 103
132 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 104 faculty with knowledge, skills and attitude to be able to participate effectively in research, extension work, and teaching and the use of instructional e-learning and adopted an internationally benchmarked academic curriculum as one strategy for faculty development in the higher education level; b. CHED should have initiated qualitative improvement in the training of teachers in teacher training institutions and faculty of other HEIs focusing on English instruction, both public and private; c. A close coordination and monitoring mechanism should have been installed to both DEPED and CHED with NEETS; d. All levels (Basic, Tertiary and Tech Voc), together with the OPAE, should have established a Knowledge Management Systems for databases, electronic journals, virtual library, and other technical education information, etc., on Philippine Education and Industry towards the development of an information society. By end of 2010: e. CHED should have intensified its implementation of the Faculty Development Program (FDP) among qualified HEI faculty to pursue Master s degree particularly in English, Math, and Science with the objective of increasing the number of Master s degree holders from 1,000 to 3, Workshop Proper A total of 87 attended the Group 2 session at Sampaguita Hall, Manila Hotel representing all levels of education both public and private from the different regions; the Senate of the Philippines; the Industry & Business Sector; LGU ( Municipal Mayors); DOST-Science Education Institution; Associations/ Societies/Councils: i.e., COCOPEA, PASUC, Foundation for Worldwide People, National Competitiveness Council, e-skills network, Promoting English Proficiency of AMCHAM, Tele-Development Services, Inc (call centers & BPO Support Cos.), UNESCO, National Development Board, SEAMEO-Innotech, Metrobank Foundation, Inc., NEAP, ; PRC; among others. A consensus was reached on the 8 issues and relevant recommendations were unanimously endorsed by the group for presentation and these are: a. Promote CPE (Continuing Professionals Education) of teachers and faculty in all levels b. Adopt an appropriate curriculum design, content, teaching methodologies and assessment systems for in-service and pre-service training of teachers c. Emphasize English, Math and Science and Technology in basic and tertiary education curricula
133 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education d. Strengthen coordination with accredited TEIs (Teachers Education Institutes), COEs (Center of Excellence), CODs (Center of Development), autonomous and deregulated colleges and universities in the implementation of Teacher Education programs and Trainings, In-Service and Pre-Service Trainings e. Design and implement a tracking system for implementation of minimum academic qualifications of faculty members in public and private HEIs. f. Design an implementation plan for the NCBTS to provide teachers with new and expanded skills including the use of instructional technology, alternative mode of delivery using e-learning technologies or facilities. g. Review teachers qualifications and ranking classifications and institutionalize rewards systems for exemplary performance in teaching, research, and extension services. h. Adopt a competitive salary scale for teachers in public education institutions including SUCs based on performance to attract and keep the best educators The first part of the Workshop was a presentation of the National Competency-Based Teacher Standards (NCBTS) by the Workshop Committee/ Panel: 2.1. Structure of the NCBTS NCBTS is a set of new and expanded competencies which is a departure from the traditional teacher-centered learning style to a learner-centered mode of teaching This is a product of an inter-agency project, participated in by the Teacher Education Council (TEC) of the DepEd, CHED, PRC, PAFTE and other stakeholders With the TEC of DepEd as lead agency, the NCBTS will be implemented: By adopting an appropriate curriculum design, content, teaching methodology and assessment system for pre-service and in-service training including college instructors of degree programs other than teaching; By promoting continuing professional education of teachers in public and private schools at all levels and of principals and superintendents; By ensuring implementation of training received thru classroom-based teacher mentoring, articulation of student assessment with content and methods of in-service training, and multi-level accountability of training; 105
134 , The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 6: The National Competency-Based Teacher Standard Structure The National Competency-Based Teacher Standard Structure DOMAIN 1: SOCIAL REGARD FOR LEARNING DOMAIN 2: THE LEARNING ENVIRONMENT DOMAIN 3: THE DIVERSITY OF LEARNERS DOMAIN 4: CURRICULUM DOMAIN 5: PLANNING, ASSESSING & REPORTING DOMAIN 6: COMMUNITY LINKAGES DOMAIN 7: PERSONAL & PROFESSIONAL GROWTH By emphasizing English, Mathematics, Science and Technology, including the use of instructional technology and alternative mode of delivery with emphasis in the use of the mother tongue in teaching Math and Science; By including multi-grade teaching and handling of large classes in the training design; By utilizing TEI s with level 3 accredited status with any of the 5 recognized accrediting agencies (PAASCU, PACUCOA, ACSCUAA, AACCUP, ALCOCOA), COEs, CODs, COTs, and those fully autonomous and deregulated HEIs as one of the training service providers; 2.3. Public and Private HEIs will be required to develop a tracking system for the full implementation of the requirement to possess a relevant master s degree to qualify for college teaching and additional training for non-education graduates in principles and methods of teaching, assessment of learning, psychology of learning, curriculum development and preparation of instructional materials. 106
135 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Figure 7: Teacher Development Map Teacher Development Map CHED/TEIs Retirement DepEd/CHED/TEIs Entry to Teacher Education CHED/TEIs/ Schools In-Service Training And Continuing Professional Development/ DepEd National Competency Based Teacher Standards Pre-Service Training PRC Teacher Induction DepEd / CSC/ HEIs Teacher Licensure Teacher Human Resource Planning, Recruitment, Selection, Deployment, and Recognition System 2.4. Enjoin schools, colleges and universities to develop a scheme of rewarding regularly outstanding teachers Review the compensation packages of public and private educational institutions to make them attractive in order to keep the best educators in the field. OPEN FORUM ON THE 8 CONCERNS OF IMPROVING TEACHER COMPETENCIES IN THE BASIC EDUCATION LEVEL AND FACULTY DEVELOPMENT IN THE TERTIARY LEVEL Part 2 of the Workshop was a short open forum and the questions or inquiries raised on the floor by the participants were directly related to the 8 specific goals/concerns initially identified for the workshop 2. It also included 107
136 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy inquiries on the reports or inputs from experts or agencies having programs or projects in some of the concerns. Concern No. 3: Emphasize English, Math, and Science and Technology in basic and tertiary education curricula Dr. Vivien M. Talisayon: Observed that it seems we are not able to attract minds to take science and math; some HEI cannot cope with offering the program. She added that for basic ed training is not the problem as there has been a lot of trainings for the last decade but the non-implementation, this is where the need for intensive follow-up measures to ensure application of training otherwise the tendency of teachers to go back its balik sa ugali and for other many reasons. Experience of the ISMED showed that score in science and math do not seem to dramatically show improvement there is a need to conduct intensive mentoring in the classroom-based; Therefore, the need to cultivate critical thinking, as observed, indicates that we are not teaching the subjects the right way, so students continue to score miserably and understand Dr. Rosita L. Navarro: We (Philippines) do not have a monopoly of having problems of teaching students to develop critical thinking skills and understanding English, Math and Science, because even in the USA they have developed a strategic plan called STEM to address the same problem Concern No. 4: Strengthen coordination with accredited TEIs, COEs, CODs, autonomous and deregulated colleges and universities in the implementation of Teacher Education programs and Trainings, In-Service and Pre-Service Trainings PCCI Representative: Inquired as to who sets the standards or determines the effectiveness of the training (content, module)? What about those teachers already in the teaching job- how do we know that the application of trainings is effective? What kind of standards is used? Ms. Beatriz Torno/DepEd-TEC: Normally, DepEd (for basic) sets the minimum requirements in terms of curriculum/content which (if you want to go international) focuses on the problem of raising the critical thinking skill of our teachers and students also in terms of comprehension or understanding; DepEd is not that strictly prescriptive, you are given the liberty to come up with your own training design when it is aimed at upgrading the teaching competence and students skills; Math, Science and English areas included. 108
137 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Dr. Rosita L. Navarro: Suggest that the issues raised for the March 7 congress; observed that it is CHED that sets the standards through the (COE) Institutions as lead institution per training area; so you have to carefully choose the institutions for a particular training program (English, Science and Math and other fields); Dr. Gladys Nivera, PNU/Member of Teacher Education Council: Expressed concern on how Math is being assessed in the country; observed that the DepEd & DOST obviously emphasize on thinking skills and use of performance assessments, open-ended items, areas, etc, but when trying to find out how teachers (in the field) are doing it (assessment) then realizing that test at the division level are not enhanced and there are no open-ended items giving no room for free response or chance for mathematical investigation thus no incentive or challenge to go into it. Further observed that there seem to be no systematic monitoring of effectiveness of the training program given to the teacher; In instances where a university crafts a training program but it was found out that there seems to exist a very clear notion of the social systemic factors present in the school where the teachers come from and when the teachertrainee leaves the university there is no or could not undertake a follow-up by the university on how they applied what they learned form the training program- absence of a tracking system Very often in the university what is talked or taught more is the theoretical aspect/side only, it is so because they are immersed in the specific situation where a teacher/student us It is strongly suggested or thought of if there is a tie-up between the training provider and the school so the chances for emersion is there and also follow-up of the training can easily be done Dr. Vivien Talisayon: This is where the much needed classroom mentoring must be undertaken and include a continuous articulation of the testing system Dr. Rosita Navarro: Yes, there is a need to develop a tracking system, and maybe should also be a part of that March summit/conference Concern No. 5: Design and implement a tracking system for implementation of minimum academic qualifications of faculty members in public and private HEIs Dr. Rosalinda Valdepeñas: Expressed concern over the need also to upgrade the competencies of principal unfortunately who are not expert in all fields and yet they are involved in the rating/observation of the teachers in their 109
138 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy classroom performance (competence/effectiveness, etc); while the teachers undergo competence building like training in English, Math, Science, and other subjects, the principal is not so how can a principal appreciate or like the idea of the teachers to implement what has been learned from trainings in their respective schools. Dr. Vivien Talisayon: Maybe there is a need to employ the tracking and management skills of the principals through one of his basic supervisory function such as conducting observation sessions Dr. Orfelina Tuy: In the National Educational Assessment Program (NEAP), we have already developed the curriculum for the Principals Academy, all concerns earlier brought up are properly addressed; the training curriculum emphasizes the need for a strong joint effort of the stakeholders (principals, teachers and the community) particularly in the planning and implementation of the school-based management; the curriculum includes school-basic managerial functions plus special courses such as conducting instructional observation a paradigm shift in observing to help the teachers cope with classroom teachings and come up with innovation. The next upcoming program of the NEAP is launching of the training program for Division Superintendents. Dr. Navarro: information like this should be communicated to the field, nationwide, Metro Bank Foundation President Tony Sobrepeña, On Incentives: Metro Bank Foundation President Tony Sobrepeña share the experiences with regard to the long-running project for the search for outstanding teachers among other categories and in coordination with the Teacher Education Council - a standard criteria for the search is being used. There was a suggestion, however, that those in the far-flung areas should also be given a chance to vie for the award and probably there is a need to look at the criteria all things equal but those in the rural areas will have less chances. Also suggested that the interview will include knowledge of international affairs or events / culture to give an international color to the criteria or scope of knowledge. Mr. Tony Sobrepeña assured the participants of a continued support from the private sector for the adoption or implementation of reforms/advancement in the education. Dr. Jove Usana, Private HEI President PTTC: Observed that sending 110
139 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education teachers to trainings is very costly/expensive adding to it that when they are asked on what new or what have they learned the response is either that they was nothing new or they already knew what were discussed not that very relevant or significant and yet the school is forced to spend for the attendance of teachers to trainings in compliance with the approved memo for the private sector. In this case, can CHED or DEPED not provide guidance or regulate the holding of trainings in terms of what trainings are most relevant to upgrading or improving the competencies of teachers/faculty? Dr. Eloisa B. Yu, ARD of Region IV-B: Reported/shared the experience of Region IV-B in relation to the concerns expressed earlier on the cost of sending teachers to trainings that their INSET, as part of the school-based management scheme, is well placed and being conducted in the local level with coordination with NEAP, they identify local experts/trainers such that a practitioner is also the trainer; planning is done through the interface between the principals and teachers, planning is participative, thus making monitoring or tracking very easy. Dr. Isabel Inlayo, CHED: Shared the recommendations of CHED during a pre-summit for Science, Math and Technology. Agreed to re-visit the teaching guidelines of the minimum requirements for GE. Support the adoption of GE curriculum with 24 units in English; 12 units in Science and 12 units in Math. In line with the problem relative to endorsement of CHED, the attendance to seminars, conferences, as recommended, CHED will look into the qualified CEC providers; so the creation of Task Force headed by CHED to assist in the regulation of fees, guidelines, and other requirements aspects that will be included in the seminar/guidelines to be issued. Lastly related to the program and project are in place: i.e. teaching policies and guidelines as part of the monitoring the qualification of faculty and provision of some incentives for schools are also in place like the Republica Award (a research and publication), the best or highest leading institutional performance; They gave also on-going Continuing Professionals Education for (CPE); and a CPE group in PRC composing of three members. The CPE is in support for those who did not make it in the Faculty Development Program of CHED. Initially, a CPE for cooperating teachers will be piloted in Marikina. 111
140 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Miss Olivia Caling, A Metro Bank Outstanding Secondary Teacher Awardee: Shared what they do in their school to help those who cannot or have not attended trainings in Science and Math they have organized themselves into work groups and do mentoring/tutorial sessions during their break time; the principals are fully supportive of such plan which is part of Teachers development; and best practices of teachers are recognized and replicated in the division level. The information addresses the problem on how to provide teachers with opportunities for upgrading their competence (subject knowledge, teaching skills, and critical thinking, etc.) Concern No. 6: Design an implementation plan for the NCBTS to provide teachers with new and expanded skills including the use of instructional technology, alternative mode of delivery using e-learning technologies or facilities Dr. Virgilio Oliva (University of Southern Mindanao): How will we harmonize the program of HEI/SUC with regard to teacher education vis-à-vis the concept of the NCBTS; How do we ensure that those faculties in the higher education also can avail of the same programs/trainings for improving teaching competencies. Improving teacher competencies also applies to higher education but there is the gap between the basic education and Teacher education pre-set and in-set training curriculum therefore, if we are to look at the preparation of teachers in various areas to teach either in the basic education or tertiary level then we must synchronize any attempt to improve the knowledge, methodologies and technique of teaching (AB/BA in English, Math, Science, etc.) Dr. Binag (Sultan Kudarat Polytechnic State College): Faculty development in the higher education may require a different approach because the SUCs faculty has a tri-logic function: instruction, research and extension; how do we measure their performance to say that they need to re-train or take up continuing education program? Dr. Lily Rosqueta Rosales (PRC): The teaching of math in the lower grade vis-à-vis the need to use a language nearest of most familiar to the pupil in the first 3 years: as he/she is bound to experience 3 problems: a) the math content itself; b) the teacher who does not know/understand how to use or apply mathematical language; and c) the language used (English) which is foreign to her/him; and as recommended by the UNESCO, UNICEF and World Bank, others, the use of the lingua franca in the lower grades in teaching English, Math and Science as much as possible 112
141 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Dr. Fe Hidalgo (Former DEPED Undersecretary): It has always been the policy of DepEd to provide quality education with quality teachers thus investing so much in the implementation of INSET and special projects that would improve the critical thinking skills of teachers, methods of teaching, preparation/use of instructional materials, which greatly influence the pupils performance; the implementation of the BESRA is a big and significant reform in basic education Dr. Jose Lapuz (UST): Commented on the NCBTS structure & Teacher Development Map that in the earlier days it should have been best but not all teachers are graduates of Teacher Education but strongly believes that it is inherent in an individual to be a good teacher because teaching is an art it is in the heart but agreed that as a teacher the desire to learn to improve its knowledge, competence, and improving on how to craft questions and compute graded then he would welcome or be willing to attend seminars on how to grade, prepare question, prepare a syllabus or lesson plan. However, even if one did so but you don t easily produce a great teacher - teaching is a profession to inspire, to share knowledge distinction of what is learned, appreciated; it is in the heart. Dr. Jose Abueva (Former UP President/Member PTFE): On his UP experience showed also that the problem of weak performance in English, Science and Math despite the high standards being observed in the UP systems; UP has having, across the board, the highest capability of attainment masters and up degrees; Dr. Abueva made a brief definition of what is competency as a potential capability as against actual performance; and is mostly measured in terms of degree earned; actual performance or teaching competencies to be called high is nurtured by a continued exertion through teaching and research and participation in various seminars and conferences; At UP, the different schools of learning or departments has actually different performance rating which is due to several factors that significantly affect teaching and research, acceptance or recognition in the profession both nationally and internationally. There are at least 3 categories/ecologies of competencies/ performance in the UP: a) Ecology of Excellence; b) Ecology of ambivalence; c) Ecology of Mediocrity. Although there are only a few units/departments that belong to the ecology of mediocre; but there is a tug of war between the first and second ecologies for recognition as scholars as against those who simply live by. 113
142 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy What makes the difference? a. Special incentives for those who excel b. Cash reward like a few thousand pesos for those who can publish research national and international c. Recognize every good book written and published d. Recognition of faculty in the international association or union of scientists Dr. Abueva, when he was President of UP, introduced the rank of a University Professor whose salary is only one step lower than a University President. There are some colleges or units with a critical mass of scholars and teachers for the younger ones to learn and be influenced by their peers which is very strong you remain in the faculty if you re still accepted but otherwise you would know when to leave the college or department; In my time (Dr. Abueva) there were few or at least two exemplary units of excellence: the Schools/Departments of Economics and Marine Sciences. Also speaking of academic freedom as it is guaranteed in the Philippine Constitution in the higher institution, but is not generally is not the case: i.e., when CHED regulates does not fall under the constitutional description of reasonable supervision but maybe it is so in certain condition like instances that many institutes violates the standards that CHED would like to set which becomes more regulatory than supervision but actually what institutions need is the right challenge and support however, the regulatory tone is very strong because of the observation that the quality of education delivered is generally of low quality. In this regard, I (Dr. Abueva) would like to say that it s the peers in a department or unit that sets the mode/tone for the quality of the faculty. As an example in UP, the College of Nursing, where they refuse to expand admission of more students knowing that it is not within their function to do so UP thinks there must be limit to the size beyond which they cannot maintain the quality that they like to maintain. Finally, to recap the points: a. To understand the difference between capability and competence Provide reasonable incentives, for instance faculty belonging to a very prestigious department or college may be granted a very high incentive. b. The need for a critical mass but must maintain the quality of its education/ program and its faculty. 114
143 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education SUMMARY OF PROCEEDINGS 1. Problems a. A lot of information gap on PRESET & INSET initiatives or projects implemented needs to be documented & consolidated to give a holistic picture or status on its implementation at all levels (Basic & Tertiary) at the local, region and national; b. The need to develop a data bank of all projects (funded by local, private, government & international organizations/institutions) 2. Recommendations a. To strengthen and/or install the KMS/network with all education sector at the division regional and division level; b. To conduct at the local and regional levels an assessment of impact and gaps. 115
144 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 116
145 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2.3 Harmonizing Technical Education and Higher Education Chairman: Dr. Lydia B. Echauz, Far Eastern University President Co-Chairman: Dr. Horacio M. Montefrio, International Electronics and Technical Institute President Rapporteur: Dr. Elizabeth Q. Lahoz, Technological Institute of the Philippines President Consolidator: Exec. Dir. Clifford A. Paragua, Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President of the Philippines Presidential Task Force for Education Convenor:Hon. Augusto L.Syjuco, Technical Skills and Development Authority Director General RATIONALE R epublic Act 7722, the law which created CHED, provides that CHED shall have jurisdiction over public and private institutions of higher education as well as degree-granting programs in all post-secondary educational institutions, public and private. On the other hand, Republic Act 7796, the law which created TESDA, defines technical education as the education process designed at post-secondary and lower tertiary levels, officially recognized as non-degree programs aimed at preparing technicians, para-professionals and other categories of middle-level workers. Educational institutions at the tertiary level are required to secure prior authority from CHED or TESDA, depending on the nature of the program that is intended to be offered degree programs are applied with CHED and non-degree programs for technicians, para-professionals and other middle-level workers are applied with TESDA. In September 2004, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo issued Executive Order No. 358, to institutionalize a ladderized interface between technical-vocational education and training (TVET) and higher education (HE). In the implementation of EO 358, a higher education institution 117
146 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy intending to ladderize its degree programs shall restructure the curriculum such that vocational qualifications approved and promulgated by TESDA are integrated to the lower years of the degree program. In case a student fails to complete the entire degree program and drops out of school, the student who completes the vocational components of the program in the lower years may still earn a certificate of competency from TESDA which will enhance his or her employability in semi-skilled or skilled jobs. ISSUES AND CONCERNS Workshop 3 focused on the issues attendant to the implementation of Executive Order 358, providing for a seamless tertiary education program. Information gathered from CHED indicates that appropriate guidelines have been issued for the smooth implementation of Executive Order 358 in all regions of the country. This was covered by CHED Memorandum Order Nos. 35, 36, 37 and 38, Series of 2006 and CMO No. 03 Series of On its part, TESDA has also issued relevant orders to the field in terms of the implementation of the ladderization program. This was covered by TESDA Order No. 10, Series of The initial implementation of the ladderized education program covered eight disciplines where model curricula were developed by TESDA and CHED working together. These disciplines include: nursing, teacher education, maritime, engineering, agriculture, hotel and restaurant services, information technology and criminology. The issue in the implementation of EO 358 lies in the requirement that higher education institutions intending to ladderize their degree programs were still required to secure a permit from CHED and a registration certificate from TESDA before the ladderized program can be offered to the public. It shall be noted that under Section 3 of Executive Order No. 358, the Professional Regulation Commission, among other agencies, is mandated to provide the necessary support in the operationalization of a unified national qualifications framework upon which ladderized education programs are based. The Professional Regulation Commission should therefore recognize ladderized education programs and allow those who complete such programs to undergo the relevant licensure examinations. Additionally, Executive Order No. 330, provided for the establishment of the Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program 118
147 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education (ETEEAP). Under the program, educational institutions deputized by CHED have the final prerogative to recognize and give credits to subjects that have been taken under a technical-vocational program, when a student transfers from such program to a higher education degree program. WORKSHOP PROCEEDINGS 1. Pre-Workshop Consultations Consultations carried out by the PTFE with stakeholders represented by experts/consultants and practitioners in the field of technical vocational education and higher education have identified specific problems and difficulties of higher education institutions in the implementation of the ladderized education program as provided for in Executive Order 358. Foremost of these is the need to secure a prior permit from both TESDA and CHED before an institution can adopt and implement a ladderized degree program. Such a situation was perceived to involve too much bureaucracy, in effect impeding the smooth implementation of the ladderized education program. Another is the perceived delay in the formulation of model curricula that will cover other disciplines in order to extensively implement the ladderized education program. Prior to the Education Congress, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, cognizant of the concerns aired by the higher education institutions regarding the requirement for prior permit from TESDA and CHED as a basis for the offering of a ladderized degree program, issued Executive Order 694.The Order provides that higher education institutions opting to ladderize their educational programs can do so without the need for issuance of a permit from the CHED or TESDA. This provision of EO 694 applies to programs that have been previously granted government recognition by CHED, programs for which model curriculum have been issued by CHED and TESDA. The concerned higher education institution shall submit a copy of the ladderized curriculum to CHED and TESDA. 2. Workshop Recommendations A total of 41 participants attended Workshop 3 at the Tent City, Manila Hotel representing all levels of education both public and private from the various regions of the country, from the House of Representatives, from the business and Industry sector, and from non-government organizations. 119
148 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Consensus was reached on a number of relevant recommendations which were unanimously endorsed by the group Design harmonized guidelines for equivalency and competency based courses to enhance the delivery of high quality technical vocational courses and higher education programs. a. CHED and TESDA should agree on competency-based assessment (Tech Voc) and credit units (Higher Education) b. Come up with a policy to standardize credit transfer from Tech Voc to HEI degree courses c. Explore other pathways of bridging from Tech Voc to Higher Education d. Include DepEd in the harmonization process. e. Tech Voc NC1/NC2 in basic education, not just in selected Tech Voc high schools (NC3/NC4 for TVIs) f. Design more model curricula to expand the coverage of ladderized programs g. Activate a one-stop TESDA/CHED shop to facilitate implementation of ladderized programs (TEDSA/CHED Permanent Secretariat) Ref: CHED CMO 27 h. Ensure constancy of education policy despite changes in administrations (national/ched/ TESDA/DepEd) 2.2. Synchronize standards and upgraded curriculum design per discipline and a strategic implementation scheme (i.e. massive consultation and information dissemination scheme) a. Fast track the issuance of Implementing Guidelines for EO 694 b. Make available the manuals pertaining to ladderized programs to all stakeholders of CHED / TESDA / DepEd 2.3. Adopt a Two-Track system of education at the tertiary level streaming students to professional degrees and technical courses using international standards Study and pilot two years of post-secondary schooling patterned after Asian models even before going to a professional degree or technical course Put greater emphasis on Science and Technology at the Post Graduate Level to enhance the competitiveness of the country. CHED and DOST should develop a more comprehensive and better-funded program to train more Filipino scientists and engineers at the post-graduate 120
149 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education level to enhance Philippine competitiveness, similar to the Engineering and Science Education Project (ESEP) Other issues and concerns: a. Study the possible competition posed by higher education institutions offering ladderized degree programs which might put the Tech Voc schools at a disadvantage b. Include Tech Voc Education Institutions (TVEI) students as grantees of the PhP Ladderized Education Program (LEP) Scholarship given to HEI students by TESDA c. Address the concerns of Tech Voc graduates with long industry experience but who cannot be promoted for lack of a bachelor s degree. Emphasize other modalities such as ETEEAP, portfolio assessment, and the Open University d. Consider abolishing or reducing costly TESDA assessment fees and expand the number of free assessment sites 121
150 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 122
151 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2.4 Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and Industry Chairman: Dr. Cristina D. Padolina, Centro Escolar University President; Co-Chairman: Dr. Eduardo G. Ong, Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry Education Rapporteur: Ms. Emivita S. Formoso, Office of the President, Ateneo de Manila University Consultant Presidential Task Force for Education Convenor: Amb. Donald G. Dee, Special Envoy of the President on Trade and Negotiations (DFA) RATIONALE W orkshop 4-A sought to take a look at post-secondary level education from the demand side, specifically, from the perspective of the industry and service sectors which would eventually provide employment or entrepreneurial opportunities. This resonates very well with the stated purpose of the Congress, which is to assess Philippine Education towards enhancement of its quality and relevance, as well as the vision of every Filipino family to provide for the education of their children that can lead to a productive and gainful employment. The Main Education Highway presents a template for the development of the youth, from primary to secondary to tertiary education. The parents, schools and community are expected to nurture our youth to produce well-rounded individuals who have social and work skills, sound values and a deep love of God and country. The youth s journey through the Main Education Highway ultimately leads him/her to be a productive member of society, either as an employee or an entrepreneur. The youth s education must be relevant and aligned to the specific needs of the industry and service sectors of the global economy. A good match between industry s demand for human resources and the knowledge and skills of graduates shall help in addressing unemployment and underemployment. 123
152 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The right skills, availability of talents and foreign language proficiency (e.g. English, Spanish and Chinese) are decisive factors in companies off-shoring and outsourcing strategies. According to a 2006 Survey that was commissioned by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP), "access to qualified personnel" is one of the major reasons for establishing or expanding knowledge services, innovation, product development and product extensions offshore. (Analytics by: Duke University/ Booz Allen Off-shoring Research Network) The above factors are the same considerations for sourcing talents for placement in overseas jobs. Needless to say, our Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) contribute significantly to our Gross National Product (GNP) and foreign exchange reserves. Effective linkages with industry enable colleges and universities that offer post-secondary or tertiary education to do more realistic forecasts of potential enrollment figures; and properly plan their curriculum, faculty development, equipment acquisition, space requirements and funding sources. GOALS The overriding objective of Workshop 4-A was to tighten linkages between higher education and industry. Three major strategies were identified, as follows: 1. Address mismatch of industry demand and supply of graduates 2. Generate commitment from the industry sector and from the academe to prepare graduates for gainful employment or entrepreneurship 3. Internationalize education to meet global standards The workshop was a venue for bringing in all the stakeholders together to discuss opportunities/threats, strengths/weaknesses and various concerns; and propose action plans and priority areas. a. Representatives from Business Processing Association/Philippines (BPA/P) and Semiconductor and Electronics Industries in the Philippines, Inc. (SEIPI) shared their business targets with the key administrators of colleges and schools, and representatives of CHED, TESDA, and DepEd. b. The APC Center of the Asia Pacific College shared various models and bridging program initiatives of academia to promote more effective linkages and partnership innovations between the academe and the industry / business sector. c. Other colleges and universities brought out concerns on how to initiate and 124
153 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education sustain relationships with industry and local government units. They were also concerned about the overall competitiveness of the Philippines vis-à-vis other countries. d. CHED and TESDA discussed available funding sources and existing projects with industry. HIGHLIGHTS The workshop had two presenters from the industry sector; the first was from the Business Processing Association / Philippines (BPA/P); and the second was from the Semiconductor and Electronics Industries in the Philippines, Inc. (SEIPI). They both discussed the demand situation and shared their Roadmap 2010 with the group. These two associations were chosen because they have done extensive research on the needs of the industries that they serve. They both have a Roadmap till 2010 that details the types of talents needed and the forecasted number of employees. They have also pilot-tested initiatives to link up with colleges and universities to run programs that are needed to increase the employment probability of graduates. The third presenter from the APC Center (Asia Pacific College) presented industry-academe partnership initiatives that can be used as references by other colleges and universities. 1. Off-shoring and Outsourcing: Mr. Oscar Sanez, CEO, BPA/P The Business Processing Association of the Philippines is bullish about increasing market share from the current 4-5% to 10% of the global market in This will translate to an increase in outsourcing revenues from US$3.3 billion in 2006 to US$13 billion in 2010, and one million strong workforce. These revenue and manpower forecasts were established after consultations with BPA/P members, BOI, CICT. The study was also facilitated by the McKinsey Group. There will also be a ripple effect on indirect goods and services (e.g. food, housing, transportation, and communications), savings and taxes resulting in an estimated US$6.7 billion in salaries and benefits. BPA/P s Roadmap 2010 has five thematic programs to grow and expand the supply of employees in the long-term and to draw an additional 290 t0 560 employees in the near-term: 1. Implement comprehensive assessment and training programs 2. Promote awareness on career opportunities in Off-shoring and 125
154 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Outsourcing (O & O) 3. Tap alternative talent pools 4. Improve ability to fund 5. Effect responsive curriculum change The Roadmap also calls for the development of next wave cities in the Philippines as the demand for O & O increases; and as infrastructures in Metro Manila reach full capacity. This will spread the benefits of O & O to areas outside of Metro Manila and will spur regional growth. In order to accomplish this gigantic task and take advantage of market opportunities that present themselves today, there is a need for the educators and industry to work in sync and develop partnerships that focus on very specific competencies. Government institutions such as the CHED, TESDA and the LGUs are enablers who shall provide the technical advice, funding and a supportive environment. This tripartite participation completes the three-way partnership for managing the relevant and effective development of skills, Figure 8: Paradigm of BPA/P s collaboration with the various stakeholders BPA/P hopes to collaborate with the various stakeholders to achieve O&O industry objectives Working group to promote and accelerate development of Next Wave Cities Maintain BPAP Inventory Update scorecard Prepare case studies Perspective on city progress Coordinate data collection on cities Coordinate ICT council meetings Help LGU understand buy factors Communicate location opportunities to industries CICT Push for ICT council creation and activeness Coordinate with other government agencies (e.g., DTI) Industry* Spread O&O activities more evenly Identify ways to manage the ecosystem Provide perspective on needs and location readiness LGU Next Wave Cities Working Group Articulate objectives for the city Push for buy-in of local stakeholders and citizens National government Align investments and regulations together Support other agencies involved in O&O investments * Service providers/investors, real estate developers, telco providers, utility providers, schools and placement agencies Source: Team analysis
155 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education competencies and expertise required by industries where we have a clear competitive advantage. 2. Electronics/Semiconductors: Mr. Ernesto Santiago, President, SEIPI Electronics and semiconductors account for 66% of Philippine exports in 2007 or around US$ 31 billion in export revenue, and bringing in an estimated US$1.4 billion investment. There are more than 900 electronic and semiconductor companies in the Philippines directly employing around 450,000 Filipinos. SEIPI has an Industry Competitive Landscape Study (Roadmap 2010) aimed to flesh out their stated vision to Transform the Philippines into a regional Center of Excellence in selected electronics industry products and processes; and thus, become the investment location of choice for domestic and foreign organizations who wish to design, make and sell their products. The objective is to increase export revenues to US$50 billion in 2010 and employ 1,000,000 Filipinos. There are seven (7) key initiatives that are being implemented to realize the strategic objectives, these are: 1. Manufacturing Cost Control 2. Country Image 3. Targeted Sector Development 4. Allied Industry Development 5. Wafer Fabrication 6. MNCs and Domestic Value Chain Expansion 7. Center For Excellence Of the seven strategies, #6-Value Chain Expansion, and #7-Center for Excellence can be facilitated by focusing academics to specific needs of this industry. For instance, the retention of existing companies, both local and multinational, can be ensured by having higher value-added capability (e.g. R&D and Chip Design), and by enhancing the efficiencies in the manufacturing process (e.g. assembly and test). The four main engineering functions that the academe may want to look at when planning their engineering courses are: 127
156 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 1. Product and test engineering 2. Process engineering 3. Equipment engineering 4. Quality Assurance / Reliability/ Failure Analysis The competency requirements range from basic knowledge to problem solving to innovation and change management. SEIPI s strategy for the retention of existing companies to continue doing business in the Philippines and the attraction of new companies to locate in the Philippines hinges on the supply of engineers with higher value-adding competencies. Hence, SEIPI had been closely working with selected schools, CHED to increase MS Engineering graduates from 80 in 2002 to 600 by 2010; and Engineering PhD s from 20 graduates in 2002 to 200 graduates by Mr. Santiago extensively discussed the four tracks of BS Engineering that partner schools, like De La Salle University and MAPUA, are Figure 9: The Engineering Graduates Program 128
157 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education implementing. It is hoped that number of graduates following these tracks shall increase to 200,000 by Working Models on Academe-Industry Linkages: Ms. Ma. Teresita Medado, Managing Director, The APC Center, Asia Pacific College There are existing initiatives on Academe-Industry Linkages that are presently being implemented, most of which can be considered pilot programs. The evaluation of these programs will be done after the SY. It is hoped that a full roll-out can be done in the next school year. This would mean intensifying efforts to establish the academe-industry partnerships amongst more schools and more companies, with end view of having ready hires for partner companies. The following programs were discussed: 3.1. De La Salle University BS Engineering a. The DLSU BS Engineering and Industrial Technicians Programs required students to go through shop-floor practice of one month to one semester. b. The Manufacturing Engineering Program was established with one year of internship, combining Tec-Voc (machine shop) with Engineering, including use of numeric-controlled machines, programming, and robotics. Engineering students were required to go through one year internship (4th year) in a 5-year trimestral program. c. Partner companies are members of SEIPI University of the East English proficiency a. Through the prodding of the Department of Trade and Industry as early as 2003, U.E. developed Communications 400, a one semester English proficiency program whose content approximated the Call Center English training program. One of U.E. s earliest partners was People Support. b. In 2005, the elective was further enhanced with the participation of epldt Ventus; redeveloping the elective as a 6 unit subject (now with Communication 401). c. Today, U.E. is also one of the universities that partner with the BPA/P and TESDA in implementing English and IT proficiency programs Industry-Academe Linkage Program a. This is a joint initiative of a community of organizations including Business Process Association of the Philippines (BPA/P), Philippine Software Industry 129
158 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 10: Industry-Academe Linkage Program Industry-Academe Linkage Program TESDA Industry PSIA, BPA/P COCOPEA PSITE-NCR Needs Assessment Course development epldt Ventus etelecare Convergys Accenture ICT BPA/P member companies PSIA member companies CECSD ADEPT Evaluation & Hiring Certification & Training Funds Pilot Faculty Training Jose Rizal College University of the East Emilio Aguinaldo College Philippine Women s University University of Perpetual Help Philippine Christian University Asia Pacific College (PSIA), the Coordinating Council of Private Education (COCOPEA), and the Philippine Society of Information Technology Educators (PSITE-NCR). b. The joint project is in response to the Train for Work Scholarship Certificate Program of the Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA). It aims to reduce gaps on the mismatch; produce IT and language proficient graduates that meet industry requirement. c. The projects / courses developed are the Advanced English Proficiency Training Program (ADEPT) and Career Entry Course for Software Development (CECSD) a course developed by PSIA. The pilot was launched 2nd Semester of SY Eventually, a full-scale launch is targeted for June 2008 involving 6 College and University Partners Asia-Pacific College - Strategic Industry-Academe Partnership Models in Higher Education a. Ms. Medado explained that the APC Center is engaged as a partner of IBM Daksh Business Process Services Philippines, Inc. for training and recruitment of potential Customer Care Specialist. Dubbed the IBM Daksh Gateway Project, applicants who were assessed as near hires are endorsed to the Center for training. Based on a metric of possessed skills in English proficiency 130
159 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education and customer relation, near hires are stratified into differentiated training programs varying in both content and duration. Over the last 7 months, out of the 1,066 near hires who joined the program, 780 were hired, a 74% acceptance rate. An experimental class for those below near hires yielded a very high hiring rate after the students underwent the program; around 80% were hired immediately after. b. The Post Baccalaureate Bridging Program Cyber Corridor Super Region, is one of the five super regions created and defined through E.O The Cyber Corridor is an ICT belt stretching over 600 miles from Baguio City to Zamboanga envisioned to provide a variety of cyber-services at par with global standards. The bridging programs were supported by the Commission on Higher Education. Participating Colleges and Universities were The APC Center Asia Pacific College, University of the Cordilleras, Nova Computer College, Cebu Institute of Technology, and the University of the Philippines College of Engineering. The APC Center partnered with 8 companies, all of them BPOs servicing software applications development, banking and finance, merchandising, and accounting and bookkeeping. The courses were tweaked to industry needs to produce the following: Cobol Programmers for IBM Solutions Delivery Inc; Safeway Philtech, Inc; and Seven-Seven Global Services Inc. AS/400 and RPG Programmers for CAI-STA; Radix System Services Corporation; and Mysis Int l Banking System. Accountants / Bookkeepers for Philippine-Services Org Inc. Systems developers for Global Ideology Corporation A notable 97.5 % were hired by the companies out of 95 graduates, trainees Far Eastern University - Institutional Industry-Academe Partnership Model a. Far Eastern University (FEU) is a one example of a University bringing Industry-Academic Partnership to an institutional level. In March 2007, the program was launched with department spearheading the model that will precisely look after extensive linkages, the Admissions & External Relations Office (AERO) in tandem with the existing University Counseling and Career Office (UCCO). b. The figure on the following page illustrates the comprehensive menu of possible industry partnerships with FEU. In this model, FEU expands partnership models across all programs and services of the University, 131
160 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 11: FEU Industry-Academe Partnership FEU Industry-Academe Partnership OJT Employment FEU Training Industry Scholarship Research Community Service 132 extending beyond OJT and employment services. c. The Student Apprenticeship Program requires student evaluation by companies; and in turn, experiences of students will become input to curricular innovation. A number of other initiatives to increase employability of graduates are in place including job fairs, in-house testing and recruitment, career counseling and symposia to name a few. SUGGESTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE WORKSHOP PARTICIPANTS 1. Long-term interventions that need to be started now a. Joint academe-industry review of courses and curriculum to ensure a robust supply of human capital for sustainable growth in industries where the Philippines has a comparative advantage b. Engineering degrees with several tracks leading to further specialization (SEIPI) c. Stronger graduate programs to improve country s innovation capability d. Ladderized training or a more workable dual-tech program e. Curriculum standards and guidelines should be more flexible, less prescriptive f. Consider competency requirements in curriculum design g. Accreditation of curriculum by academe and industry
161 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education h. Communication skills of graduates in English should be improved. i. Improve teacher competencies in English, Math and Science (both in Basic Education and Higher Education) 2. Medium- and short-term interventions (quicker fixes) Some examples: a. Advanced English Proficiency Training (ADEPT) Program b. Expanded Learning on Information Technology Services (ELITES) Program c. Bridging Programs (the APC Center models) 3. Better assessment metrics for student aptitude and capability 4. How to link up? a. PCCI and ECOP will initiate round table discussions in Manila and in the regions / provinces between businesses and schools to forge partnerships at the local unit / chapter level. b. Schools to take initiative to link up with local industry and local governments to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are mutually addressed c. Link with industry in own backyard d. Focus on natural strengths of the region, e.g. eco-tourism 5. Prepare competitive landscape study for critical industries a. Done: Semicon and Electronics Industry Business processing O&O industry b. Need prepare for: Maritime industry Travel and Hospitality Industry Health Care Industry 6. Create a clearing house that will: a. Match schools and companies for more in-depth partnerships b. Clarify roles of industry and business associations as initiators and schools as 133
162 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy enablers c. Disseminate information 7. Internationalize Education to Meet Global Standards a. Long-term interventions that need to be started now b. Rationalize the entire education system to align with other countries (Total number of years of study) Benchmark with other countries on curriculum Push for mutual recognition of competencies among countries Plan on how to phase implementation of this change with the least pain and cost 134
163 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2.5 Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and PRC to Meet the Needs of Industry Chairman: Dr. Reynaldo B. Vea, MAPUA Institute of Technology President Co-Chairman/Rapporteur: Dr. Nilo L. Rosas, Professional Regulation Commission Commissioner Facilitator/Consolidator: Dir. Romeo A. Isaac, Commission on Higher Education Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President of the Philippines Presidential Task Force for Education Convenor: Amb. Donald G. Dee, Special Envoy of the President on Trade Negotiations (DFA) RATIONALE O ne of the most persistent problems of higher education and employment in the country has been the prevailing mismatch between the outputs of higher education institutions and the skills/ competency requirements of industry. The mismatch problem basically is three-dimensional in nature which could be viewed in terms of mismatch in terms of quality, quantity and timeliness. There is clearly a mismatch when the graduates of HEIs do not live up or conform to skills/competency and numerical requirements of industry. There is also a mismatch when the HEIs do not produce the required number of quality technical and scientific manpower in various fields at the appropriate time when various industries need them. In order to address the above-cited issue, the Commission on Higher Education created under Republic Act No and which has jurisdiction over public and private institutions of higher education as well as degree-granting programs in all post-secondary educational institutions, public and private, has been implementing various initiatives on industry-academe linkages over the years but with limited success. A better approach to attack the problem is in the offing and this would definitely require a more active involvement of other stakeholders in education such as the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) in forging a tighter coordinative linkage with industry to 135
164 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy address the mismatch issue. Stressing on the need to come up with a quick-fix solution to address this job-skill mismatch in education, Workshop 4-B concentrates on strengthening the linkage between higher education stakeholders and the Professional Regulations Commission (PRC). The PRC, being the pertinent agency in monitoring and assessing the performance of schools, plays a major role in making education valuable and relevant to the present demands of the industry. PRC, established in June 1973, was mandated to monitor and assess the academic performance of schools and students in general. By virtue of Republic Act 8981, its enforcement powers were strengthened as well as its regulatory powers were extended over foreign professionals practicing in the country. Likewise, PRC was given new functions to investigate cases against erring examinees and professionals and impact the decisions of a court of law (quasi-judicial) and formulate rules and policies on professional regulation that when published in the official gazette will have the force and effect of law (quasi-legislative). Systematic generation, analysis and interpretation of statistical data continue to be some of the commission s crucial tasks in performing these mandates. However, the commission, no matter how established it is, is continuously being challenged by adversaries and issues. Controversies about examination leakages in the 2006 Nursing Board licensure examinations and accusations of being incompetent by the Maritime groups in 2007 are some of the criticisms hurled at the board members of PRC. Hence, the First Biennial National Congress intends to bring to fore for discussion and proper articulation these critical issues, concerns and problems that are perennially besetting the education sector and adversely affecting the reform initiatives being implemented by the education agencies. This forum provides the opportunity to ascertain once and for all why up to this time we continue to be confronted with practically the same education issues, problems and constraints that were identified as far back as the 1920 s by the Monroe study. The Presidential Task Force for Education, mandated to assess, plan, and monitor the entire education system takes one step ahead towards harmonizing the whole education sector and consequently achieving a Knowledge-based economy. It stands by the fact that a strong nation, with a sustainable development, lies on the strong and practicable education of its citizens. 136
165 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education GOALS The competitiveness of the Philippines in the global market had been the focus of several local conferences, research and studies by both the government and the private sectors in the past years. The results point out the following common areas for improvement, among others: a. Matching of job and skills for industries to generate greater employment b. Creating a Science and Technology culture to ensure innovation, productivity and sustainable growth c. Quality of education, educators and students d. Responsiveness of Education to the Global Need for Human Talents All of the above reports and research papers seek to address our Workshop 4 Goal: To Tighten Linkages between Higher Education and Industry. Discussions shall revolve around the following areas: a. Address mismatch of industry demand and supply of graduates b. Generate commitment of government and industry/business leaders for the appropriate development of talents for greater employability c. Internationalize education to meet global standards d. Reliability and validity including content validity of professional examinations given by PRC RECOMMENDATIONS 1. Quality of Test Items 1.1. Squarely base the exams on approved syllabi and table of specifications Subject the pool of test items to review Hire test consultants and professional test writers. 2. Curricular Validity and Relevance 2.1. Hire the services of testing experts 2.2. Solicit sample test questions from academe 2.3. Observe regulation and licensure policies in test construction Have the CHED, PRC, and Legislators, and SUC s work together with the semi-conductor industry and other industries to formulate the curriculum and board examination relevant to their needs. 137
166 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 3. Conduct research to analyze various aspects of the examinations as bases for informed decision and policy development. 4. Competencies Tested 4.1. Make instruction and evaluation competency- based as mandated by CHED Construct test items to measure entry level competencies into the professions 4.3. Require an articulation among PRC, CHED, HEIs, Learning Organizations and Industry. 5. Competency-Based Examinations Be guided by the generic competencies specified by the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry as follows: a. Collecting, analyzing and organization information b. Communicating ideas and information c. Planning and organizing activities d. Working with others and in teams e. Using mathematical ideas and techniques f. Solving problems and making decisions g. Using technology 6. Leakages Beat the leakers at their own game. 7. Public access to the test items 7.1. Make the test items public after two (2) years 7.2. Amend RA 8981, otherwise known as THE PROFESSIONAL REGULATION COMMISSION (PRC) MODERNIZATION ACT OF Presently, the law only mandates the release of sample test questions upon request by educational institutions. 8. Safety Net for Examinees Who Can t Pass The Licensure Exams 8.1. Provide safety nets for the failure without watering down the standards because they are human resources who are potentials to nation-building 138
167 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 8.2. Offer Refresher Courses 8.3. Limit the number of times the examinee can take the exams Figure 12: Beat the leakers Scheme PRC/PRBs Assistance from NBI, NICA and PNP Back-Up Plan 3 rd Test Form Back-Up Test 139
168 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 140
169 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2.6 Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of the Three Education Agencies of Government Chairman: Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles, Angeles University Foundation Chancellor; Co-Chairman: Dr. Amelou Benitez-Reyes, Philippine Women s University President; Rapporteur/Consolidator: Dr. Catalino P. Rivera, University of Pangasinan President Presidential Task Force for Education Convenor: Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles, Angeles University Foundation Chancellor RATIONALE T he governance and management of the three levels of education and training in the country have been tri-focalized through legislative enactments (RA No. 9155, RA No. 7796, and RA No. 7722) that created three (3) separate government agencies, i.e., the Department of Education (DepEd), Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA), and the Commission on Higher Education (CHED). These enactments have mandated each agency to focus on basic education, technical education and skills development for middle-level human resource, and higher education for the development of high-level professional human resources respectively. While individually each agency has proved successful with its improved individual capacity and greater focus on governing and managing its respective mandates, these agencies have remained unsuccessful in addressing cross-cutting concerns and issues in the provision of education and training in the country. It has been observed over time that the three agencies have issues and concerns that overlap including gaps and inconsistencies that have led to disjointed and non-aligned national education and training policies, plans and programs (PCER, 1992). These, in effect, have weakened the ability of the central government to act strategically and coherently across sub-sectors of the education system (Angeles, 2008). To correct this, the PCER (1992) 141
170 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy recommended the creation of a National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE) with principal responsibilities to harmonize goals and objectives for the entire education system, to tighten inter-sectoral coordination, and to address cross-cutting policies and programs, among others. The NCCE, created through Executive Order No. 273, s.2000, moved in spurts and did not quite succeed in addressing its expected roles and responsibilities (EQR Updates, 2007) as it remains inoperative (Angeles, 2008). This failure of the Council led to the abolition of NCCE through the issuance of Executive Orders No. 632 and 652 that effectively transferred its responsibilities to the PTFE with renewed focus on direction setting, assessing and monitoring the performance of the entire education system of the country. Consequently, the PTFE outlined for public discussions the management, regulation and coordination issues and concerns of the three agencies responsible for education in the country. ISSUES AND CONCERNS The issues and concerns that directly relate to the management, regulation and coordination of the three agencies were presented and discussed during the recently concluded First Biennial National Congress on Education held at the Tent City, Manila Hotel on January 31 February 1, Under the following headings, these issues and concerns included: a. For more responsive, efficient, and effective system of education, should executive/legislative action be focused on: a) strengthening coordination among the three education agencies (CHED, DepEd, TESDA), or b) reintegrate the three education agencies? b. For CHED s exercise of supervisional jurisdiction over state and local colleges and universities, should the course of action be focused on: a) amending CHED Law, or b) re-asserting CHED Law? c. For the three agencies power to implement their respective mandates and programs, should these agencies a) seek legislative grant to increase their enforcement powers and thus limit judicial reviews by courts of these agencies, or b) seek legislative grant for exemption from the courts judicial review thus granting these agencies quasi-judicial power? d. For providing broad-based access to information on the performance of the education system, should information on performance by schools, colleges and universities on national indicators be published or not? e. For improving and/or further strengthening the qualifications of heads of education agencies including other officials, should a) existing rules, regulations on qualifications as stipulated in the agencies respective mandates 142
171 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education be strictly enforced and strengthened, or b) revise the existing rules and regulations on qualifications and adopt new ones? f. For improving the management information system or knowledge management system for all public and private education institutions, should a unified management information system across public and private institutions be adopted or not? RECOMMENDATIONS Issue Number 1: Reintegration of the three education agencies (CHED, DepEd, and TESDA) for a more responsive, efficient and effective system of education a. DO NOT REINTEGRATE the three agencies, retain each agency s mandates as stipulated under the Republic Acts that created them and their individual focus per EDCOM recommendations but LINK THEM (at the policy level), and STRENGTHEN THIS CONNECTIVITY and COORDINATION b. DRAFT LEGISLATIVE AGENDA to institutionalize INVOLUTION (or RE-CENTRALIZATION) of vital functions such as: PLANNING, MONITORING and EVALUATION of the agencies performances with focus on their mandated functions c. ESTABLISH an ad-hoc body to assess the performances of the three agencies and to serve as quality control arm to insure the quality of inputs and outputs of the education system Issue Number 2: Amend the CHED Law to include Local Colleges and Universities within its supervisional jurisdiction a. REITERATE CHED LAW (RA 7722) as this supersedes the Local Government Act of 1991 b. REVISIT CHED S MANDATES and ITS ACCOMPLISHEMENTS, IDENTIFY LOOPHOLES and GAPS to FINE-TUNE CHED, and OVERHAUL CHED s SECRETARIAT c. REVISIT RA 7160 (Local Government Act of 1991) particularly Section 135, Book 1 that limits LGUs to establish educational institutions only to post-secondary level d. CONDUCT A STUDY to align all existing laws on education (and DRAFT AN OMNIBUS LAW in Education) Issue Number 3: Increase Enforcement Powers/Limit Judicial Review of education agencies a. LIMIT ISSUANCE OF WRITS OF INJUNCTION against enforcement orders b. SEEK LEGISLATIVE GRANT FOR EXEMPTION FROM THE COURT S 143
172 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy JUDICIAL REVIEW POWER based on very STRONG JUSTIFICATION (FOR CHED s QUASI-JUDICIAL POWER) Issue Number 4: Publish relevant information on performance indicators of schools, colleges, polytechnic schools and universities a. Develop and adopt a NATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR EDUCATIONAL QUALITY ASSURANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY for the education system as basis for publishing relevant information on institution s performances b. CHED and PRC to jointly study the publication of institutions performances on professional examinations c. Expand publication to include public dissemination of institution s performances in widely-circulated newspapers to provide broad-based access to such information particularly parents Issue Number 5: Review Qualifications/Disqualifications for education agency heads and other officials a. Strengthen the enforcement of existing rules, regulations on qualifications (as stipulated, for example, in RA 7722), and the career executive service rules, requirements on qualifications for government officials b. Politicians should not be recycled to head any education agency c. Study the fixed term of office for agency heads d. Appointed officials should be professionally and/or technically competent e. Appointments to positions in the education agency, in addition to paper qualifications (paper credentials), should be based on evidences of demonstrated competences f. Officials appointed to positions below the Director post should be appointed by the head of the agency (and not by the President) Issue Number 6: Adopt a Unified Management Information System or Knowledge Management System for all public and private education institutions a. Develop and adopt a unified management information system for all public and private institutions b. The system should allow cross-stakeholders networking and collaboration toward better institutional performances and learning improvement 144
173 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education ACTION AGENDA Issue Number 1 1. By end of March 2008, the legislative agenda to institutionalize the evolution of vital functions of planning, monitoring and evaluation of DepEd, TESDA and CHED has been drafted by the Task Force and certified by the President. 2. By end of April 2008, the ad-hoc body mandated to assess the performances of DepEd, TESDA, and CHED and install the quality control system for education has been officially organized. Issue Number 2 1. By end of May 2008, the review of CHED s mandates and accomplishments has been completed; by June 2008, CHED s fine-tuning consistent with RA7722 starts. 2. By end of March 2008, RA 7160 has been reviewed; by April 2008, local government units are prevented from establishing colleges or universities. 3. By end of June 2008, an Omnibus Law in Education has been drafted and certified by the President; by end of October 2008, the Omnibus Law is in effect. 4. By end of June 2008, one set of rules, regulation, supervision and standard for establishing SUCs and LCUs has been drafted; by the start of October 2008, this set of rules, regulation, supervision and standard is enforced. Issue Number 3 1. By end of April 2008, certified legislation for granting quasi-judicial powers to DepEd, TESDA and CHED has been submitted to Congress; by the start of October 2008, the quasi-judicial powers are in effect. Issue Number 4 1. By end of May 2008, the national framework for educational quality assurance and accountability has been adopted for implementation. 2. By end of April 2008, PRC and CHED have published in all nationally circulated newspapers institutional performances on all professional examinations for public knowledge and information. Issue Number 5 1. By end of April 2008, the study on defining fixed term of office for heads of 145
174 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy DepEd, and TESDA has been completed. 2. By the start of the second quarter of 2008, the competency-based selection and appointment to headships in DepEd, TESDA, and CHED and to all Director level positions including qualifications and disqualifications for all appointed officials, is enforced. Issue Number 6 1. By end of May 2008, the unified management information system for all public and private education institutions has been adopted for national implementation. 146
175 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2.7 Financial Assistance to Private Education and Budgetary Appropriations to SUCs Chairman: Dr. Vincent K. Fabella, Jose Rizal University President Co-Chairman: Dr. Nenalyn P. Defensor, Commission on Higher Education Commissioner Rapporteur: Dr. Esther B. Velasquez, Cebu Normal University President Facilitator/Consolidator: Dr. Reynaldo T. Peña, Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President of the Philippines Presidential Task Force for Education Convenor: Hon. Leonor Tripon-Rosero, Secretary, Professional Regulation Commission and Ambassador Donald G. Dee, Special Envoy of the President on Trade Negotiation (DFA) RATIONALE T he education framework which the PTFE proposed for adoption known as the main education highway is directed at actualizing the vision of every Filipino family to ensure that each son or daughter has the opportunity to get a high quality education that will make him/her a whole person and lead him/her to a productive well-paying job or become a successful entrepreneur. The main education highway embodies the interconnected, efficient and effective sub-systems of education driven by the primary goal of ensuring the attainment of the vision of the Filipino family. This means being able to make their children obtain a college education. Policy makers, on the other hand, realize that higher education is universally recognized as the engine of economic growth. Albeit this importance given to higher education, still it has to struggle to work with the dominance of worldwide financial austerity which most developing countries like the Philippines, are experiencing. With the increasing 147
176 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy cost of quality higher education, this so-called austerity in many ways has implicated a dilemma on every family s budget. In effect, this makes it more difficult for them to send their children to good higher education institutions. Thus, the need for financial assistance to cover the high cost of education. But who should provide this much sought assistance? Currently, the Philippine government through CHED has been providing varied student financial assistance through scholarships, grant-in-aid programs, and the student loan program - Study-Now-Pay-Later-Plan, which, unfortunately has collected less than one percent of actual repayment since its establishment in Throughout the years since the creation of the Educational Loan Fund (ELF) in 1976 under PD 932, this extremely low percentage of repayment collection has been a chronic problem. The paper on Student Loans by Dr. Mona Dumlao-Valisno and Dr. Reynaldo T. Peña, included among the workshop materials given cited international models of student loans with two different types of orientation cost-sharing and social targeting, and offered choices on repayment schemes income contingent or upfront payment through the tax system. Similarly, a reorientation on financing private and public higher education is given focus in this workshop. The use of the large allocations of the government budget for public higher education is still perceived to be inefficient and inequitable. Clearly the rationalization of the public higher education system must be based on a system of financing these institutions which reflect fulfillment of student demand, equity of access, and program considerations, as well as greater accountability and efficiency. Performance-based budgeting is therefore necessary. It is in this view that the Normative Financing Formula (NFF) was developed by CHED, DBM and NEDA in 2004 for the allocation of government subsidy to public higher education. While the NFF employs a number of parameters in determining the level of funding for each SUC, it does not consider the larger perspective of the relevance of an SUC s programs to the needs of business and industry within its geographical location. The workshop explored the possibility of refining the NFF, with emphasis on institutional performance for determining level of subsidy, and determining possible resources partnerships beyond government appropriations, with private entities to accord contributions or donations for institutional advancement. Likewise, the potential of using the same parameters used in the NFF in granting financial subsidy to private higher education institutions, to 148
177 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education pave the way for a leveling of the playing field between the private and public higher education institutions in their course offering and request for government financial subsidy was pursued. Finally, the possibility of establishing a National Testing and Assessment System seen to take care of the assessment and evaluation concerns in all education levels is explored relative to the monetary commitment it will demand once put in place. GOALS Workshop 6 focused on addressing the following issues with an action agenda with specific policy inputs and program/project recommendations as well as commitments from all policy stakeholders. 1. Financing a. Rationalize educational subsidies for SUCs and provide financial assistance to private HEIs b. Sustain loan and scholarship schemes, budgetary appropriations and the development of an inter-agency resource generation program This includes the development of a program to address potential cost/economic problems resulting in the migration of students from private schools to public schools 2. Cost Identification and Market Dynamics Find solutions to create a level playing field between SUCs and private HEIs. Study the possibility for SUCs to follow strict criteria when offering courses outside their mandates, such that these should not be subsidized and to jointly define parameters with private HEIs on the school fees to be set, to be followed prior to the introduction and continued implementation of these courses 3. Expand Partners in Financing/Tax Credit for Education Design a system to address and expand provisions of tax credits to business and corporations or individuals (including the family itself in financing its children s education) who will provide support for educational programs of public and private institutions or individual students, at all levels. 149
178 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 4. Accountability a. Testing Create an independent national education and testing system, to evaluate the extent to which quality, relevance and other educational goals are being met. b. Funding Accreditation Create a single independent but publicly-funded body responsible for providing funding for accreditation 150 What should the funding cover? Discussion is to be limited to funding mechanisms, and what funding should cover RECOMMENDATIONS 1. Financing through scholarships, loans and SUC budgets 1.1. Student loan programs The workshop elicited a strong general agreement and warm welcome for the policy proposal for a student loan program. a. The Philippine Government, in developing its student loan program, can learn from the successful initiatives on these from other countries presented at the workshop, such as Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Sweden and Hong Kong. b. Repayment levels are the key challenge to be resolved, in determining a good and sustainable student loan program. c. Tax incidence levels and tax collection systems in other countries should be taken into account in determining the student loan program for the Philippines, as these often appear to be key to the repayment success rates of these programs. d. Any approach should examine the possibility of utilizing existing market mechanisms to deliver student loans, e.g. through the private banking system US system was highlighted as a possible method to replicate; one of the participants was a former student loan officer in the US. e. Any approach should further examine the possibility of having government participate as a guarantor of the risks market is unwilling to price, such as the possibility a graduate will be unemployed for a prolonged period, and thus be unable to repay. Look into some World Bank or other international experiences in pricing such risk.
179 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education f. A working group should be established to work out the mechanics of a student loan program, using the recommendations above as its general parameters SUC budgetary rationalization a. It was pointed out that current SUC budgetary allocations are based on enrolment levels, as opposed to their fulfilling their mandates, hence SUCs will behave to maximize enrolment. The body proposed the need to look into the alignment between SUC mandates and their funding. b. The body suggested using SUC accreditation as a partial means of determining budgets. c. SUCs can be categorized by their flagship programs and thus focus to achieve excellence in these courses, but without duplicating courses which are offered by the private HEIs. d. Continue financing SUCs utilizing the CHED-DBM Normative Financing Scheme (but taking note of the enrolment-performance comment, above) but also grant similar subsidies to private HEIs. e. SUCs should take an advancing role in offering courses and not compete with the private HEIs; they should collaborate, not compete. 2. Cost identification and market dynamics a. The participants agreed on the need for a leveling of the playing field between private HEIs and SUCs, if the country is to fully benefit from the economic and social benefits of market dynamics or healthy competition in the education sector. b. Related to this, the body agreed that competition between course offerings between SUCs and private institutions should be minimized in general. c. The participants agreed that this might be achieved through some rationalization scheme that adjusted cost differences between market-driven private HEIs and subsidized SUCs. They felt, however, that the proposed rationalization parameter presented to the participants would not achieve this: SUC mandates or charters can t be used as policy parameters to rationalize course offerings. Such charters are purposely broad in language, and can be modified at any time by the SUC board. They would be limited in effectiveness as a self-regulating device. Real costs are difficult to identify accurately in the absence of active participation in the market. Factors such as marginal versus average cost pricing and the incredible range of product-price permutations (e.g., 150+ SUCs and LCUs times x n degree offerings per SUCS x m price strategies 151
180 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy per degree) would make the monitoring of this proposed scheme difficult, if not impossible. d. The body agreed, on a related but separate matter, that all tertiary institutions should follow the same set of parameters, i.e., CHED requirements, as part of the goal of leveling the playing field. The body agreed a large part of the challenge would be on how to deal with local government colleges and universities, which was a third group of tertiary educational institutions that is essentially unregulated. Both the public and private HEI participants highlighted their concern regarding the proliferation of new local colleges and universities (LCUs). There was unanimous agreement that all local LCUs must be under the control and supervision of CHED. e. The body recognized the importance of GASTPE as a proven means of leveling the playing field and reducing cost distortions, so this should be expanded. On this matter, the FAPE was recognized for its noteworthy job of assisting the government in managing ESC/EVS. 3. Tax credits for education a. The proposed policy was strongly welcomed by the group b. Expand tax credits to anyone who invests in education, even parents who pay for their kids, and schools which provide scholarships c. As a general case, performance metrics (e.g. employment rates, accreditation) should be used as a basis for tax credits. As a specific case, the body suggested looking into a graduated system, with higher tax credits for institutions with higher levels of accreditation. d. The body suggested tapping the League of Corporate Foundations and similar groups, to see what they ve done in this area 4. Accountability through testing and accreditation a. Testing Clarification was sought by the body on the role of the proposed National Educational and Testing Agency, in relation to existing testing bodies like the Center for Educational Measurement. In general, if the proposed work of the NETA was found to be duplicative of current market offerings, then an alternative would be for the proposed testing body to be more a funding agency or coordinating body, with the job of supporting the various third-party testing and assessment bodies that currently exist. On this matter, the establishment of any publicly-funded NETA should also look into sourcing from private business and organizations. Finally, any decision should first look at baseline data on local and 152
181 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education international experiences. There have been numerous studies in these areas, and the challenge might be more to act upon existing data, rather than to a national testing service. This would be the rational first step. b. Accreditation The body agreed on the policy proposal for a coordinated council for accreditation that works solely as a funding agency. The body noted that DepEd expects to set up an accrediting group for public and private schools at its level; and therefore that this should be considered for inclusion in the Coordinating Council Among its funding parameters would be to fund schools undergoing accreditation, as well as finance research and other operations of the accrediting agencies for improving their services. 153
182 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 154
183 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Pictorial Highlights The First Biennial National Congress on Education 31 January and 1 February 2008 Manila Hotel, Tent City The Presidential Task Force for Education listens attentively during the Doxology which was led by the Angeles University Foundation Concert Chorus. Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles, Chancellor of Angeles University and member of the PTFE, welcomes the congress delegates during the opening ceremony. 155
184 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Her Excellency Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo delivers her Keynote Address, acknowledging the special guests of the congress, the Teachers. The President talks with Prof. Jose David Lapuz, of the United Nations, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), after giving her Keynote Address. 156
185 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Members of the AUF Concert Chorus perform during the Special Number. Master of Ceremonies, Fr. Roderick C. Salazar, SVD, President of COCOPEA and member of the PTFE, reads the Manila Declaration for Philippine Education. 157
186 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy PA Mona D. Valisno hands over the Manila Declaration for Philippine Education to Secretary Jesli A. Lapus. Cheering on from left are the other members of the PTFE: Fr. Roderick C. Salazar, SVD, Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles, PRC Secretary Leonor T. Rosero, President of Kalayaan College, Dr. Jose Abueva, Special Envoy of the President on Trade Negotiation Amb. Donald G. Dee, representing Industry. 158
187 Workshop Wrap-Up Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Pictorial Highlights Workshop Chair Reports Session Chairs, Co-Chairs and Rapporteurs meet with their members to consolidate outputs to be presented to the Plenary. 159
188 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Dr. Dr. Patricia B. Licuanan President, Miriam College Chair, Workshop 1 Dr. Paz I. Lucido President, Philippine Association for Teacher Education Rapporteur, Workshop 2 Dr. Lydia B. Echauz President, Far Eastern University Chair, Workshop 3 Dr. Elizabeth Q. Lahoz President, Technological Institute of the Philippines Rapportuer, Workshop 3 Dr. Cristina D. Padolina President, Centro Escolar University Chair, Workshop 4A Dr. Reynaldo B. Vea President, MAPUA Institute of Technology Chair, Workshop 4B 160
189 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Dr. Nilo L. Rosas Commissioner Professional Regulation Commission Co-chair and Rapporteur, Workshop 4B Dr. Catalino P. Rivera President, University of Pangasinan Rapporteur, Workshop 5 Dr. Vincent K. Fabella President, Jose Rizal University Chair, Workshop 6 Dr. Esther B. Velasquez President, Cebu Normal University Rapporteur, Workshop 6 161
190 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Pictorial Highlights Singing of the Manila Declaration for Philippine Education 162
191 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Appendices PART 1 Appendix 1: Agenda of the First Biennial National Congress on Education 31 January to 1 February 2008 Tent City, Manila Hotel DAY 1 OPENING SESSION 10:00 a.m. Opening Session - Philippine National Anthem - Doxology AUF Concert Chorus 10:10 a.m. Welcome Remarks and Acknowledgment of Guests and Participants Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles Member, Presidential Task Force for Education 10:14 a.m. Overview Hon. Mona D. Valisno Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President 10:18 a.m. Introduction of the Guest Speaker Hon. Jesli A. Lapus Secretary, Department of Education and Member, Presidential Task Force for Education 10:20 a.m. KEYNOTE ADDRESS H.E. Dr. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo President, Republic of the Philippines Musical Intermission By AUF Concert Chorus 11:15 a.m. The Presidential Task Force for Education: Progress Report Hon. Romulo L. Neri, Acting Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education 11:35 a.m. Medium Term Development Plan vis-à-vis Philippine Education Hon. Augusto B. Santos Acting Secretary, National Economic and Development Authority 11:45 a.m. Basic Education: Issues and Challenges Hon. Jesli A. Lapus 11:55 a.m. Technical Education: Issues and Challenges Hon. Sec. Dr. Augusto L. Syjuco Director-General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority and Member, Presidential Task Force for Education 163
192 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 12:05 p.m. Higher Education: Issues and Challenges Hon. Romulo L. Neri 12:15 p.m. House Legislative Agenda for Basic Education Hon. Del R. De Guzman Chairperson, Committee on Basic Education and Culture House of Representatives 12:25 p.m. House Legislative Agenda for Higher Education Hon. Cynthia A. Villar Chairperson, Committee on Higher and Technical Education House of Representatives 12:35 p.m. Senate Legislative Agenda for Philippine Education Hon. Allan Peter S. Cayetano Chairman, Committee on Education, Senate Master of Ceremonies: Usherettes: Fr. Roderick C. Salazar, SVD Member, Presidential Task Force for Education Students of Centro Escolar University 12: 45 p.m. Lunch Break DAY 1, PLENARY SESSION 1 THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 2008, 1:15 p.m.-5:00 p.m. VENUE: MANILA HOTEL WORKSHOP 1 GOAL 1: Achieve full support of Stakeholders to Basic Education to attain high quality education, dramatically increase student achievement, as well as retention rate and implement fully innovative retrieval programs towards a zero drop-out rate. Standardize the pre-school curriculum that will prepare 5-year old pupils for entrance to Grade 1 and transfer the general supervision from DSWD/LGUs to DepEd Strengthen the implementation of the school-based management project or Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda (BESRA) to empower schools to make informed and local decisions based on their individual needs Intensify involvement of stakeholders: Local Government Units, Parents, Community, Business and Industries and other key players in Education, to sustain high quality education, increase retention rate and implement fully retrieval programs to dramatically reduce dropouts Workshop Chair: Co-Chair: Rapporteur: Dr. Patricia B. Licuanan, President, Miriam College Dr. Vilma L. Labrador Undersecretary, Department of Education Ms. Carmela C. Oracion, Managing Director Ateneo Center for Educational Development, Ateneo de Manila University WORKSHOP 2 GOAL 2: Improve Teachers Competencies for Basic and Tertiary Education Promote Continuing Professional Education of teachers and faculty (public and private) in all levels Adopt an appropriate curriculum design, content, teaching methodologies and assessment system for in-service and pre-service training of teachers Emphasize English, Math and Science and Technology in basic and tertiary education curricula 164
193 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Strengthen coordination with accredited Teacher Education Institutions, Centers of Excellence and Development and Autonomous and Deregulated Colleges and Universities in the implementation of Teacher Education Programs and Trainings, In-Service and Pre-Service Trainings Design and implement a tracking system for implementation of minimum academic qualifications of faculty members in public and private HEIs. Design an implementation plan for the National Competency Based Teacher Standards (NCBTS) to provide teachers with new and expanded skills including the use of instructional technology, alternative mode of delivery using e-learning technologies or facilities Review teachers qualifications and ranking classifications and institutionalize rewards system for exemplary performance in teaching, research and extension services Adopt a competitive salary scale for teachers in public education institutions including SUCs based on performance to attract and keep the best educators Workshop Chair: Co-Chair: Rapporteur: Dr. Rosita L. Navarro, Chairman Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities Commission on Accreditation Dr. Vivien M. Talisayon, Dean College of Education, University of the Philippines Dr. Paz I. Lucido, President Philippine Association for Teacher Education WORKSHOP 3 GOAL 3: Harmonized Technical Vocational and Higher Education System Design a harmonized guideline/and equivalency Competency-Based courses to enhance the delivery of high quality tech-voc courses and tertiary programs Synchronize standard, upgraded curriculum design per discipline and a strategic implementation scheme (i.e. massive consultation and information dissemination campaign) Adopt a dual track system of education at the tertiary level to conform to international standards which streams students to professional degrees and technical courses according to their aptitude and abilities Put greater emphasis on Science and Technology at the Post-Graduate Level to enhance the competitiveness of the country Workshop Chair: Co-Chair: Rapporteur: Dr. Lydia B. Echauz, President, Far Eastern University Dr. Horacio M. Montefrio President, International Electronics and Technical Institute Dr. Elizabeth Q. Lahoz President, Technological Institute of the Philippines WORKSHOP 4 GOAL 4-A: Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and Industry Address mismatch of industry demands and supply of graduates Generate commitment and/or agreement with the Industry/Business Sectors through cost-sharing arrangement, including opportunities for employment. Internationalize education to meet global standards Attract the well renowned universities in the world to establish campuses in the Philippines Workshop Chair: Dr. Cristina D. Padolina President, Centro Escolar University 165
194 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Co-Chair: Rapporteur: Presentors: Dr. Eduardo G. Ong Chair, Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry - Education Ms. Emivita S. Formoso Consultant, Office of the President Ateneo de Manila University Atty. Jesus B. Garcia, Jr., Mr. Oscar R. Sanez Mr. Ernesto B. Santiago, Ms. Teresita P. Medado GOAL 4-B Tighten Linkages Between Higher Education and PRC Address reliability and validity of professional examinations given by PRC Workshop Chair: Co-Chair/Rapporteur: Dr. Reynaldo B. Vea President, MAPUA Institute of Technology Dr. Nilo L. Rosas Commissioner, Professional Regulation Commission WORKSHOP 5 GOAL 5: Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of the Three Education Agencies of Government Propose Executive/Legislative Actions to achieve strong coordination among/possible reintegration of the three education agencies (CHED, DepEd, TESDA) for a more responsive, efficient, and effective system of education. Amend the CHED Law to include Local Colleges and Universities within its supervisional jurisdiction. Increase Enforcement Powers/Limit Judicial Review of education agencies Publish relevant information on performance indicators of schools, colleges, polytechnic schools and universities. Review Qualifications/Disqualifications for education agency heads and other officials Adopt a unified Management Information System or Knowledge Management System for all public and private education institutions Workshop Chair: Co-Chair: Rapporteur: Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles Chancellor, Angeles University Foundation Dr. Amelou Benitez-Reyes President, Philippine Women s University Dr. Catalino P. Rivera President, University of Pangasinan WORKSHOP 6 GOAL 6: Financial Assistance to Private Education and Budgetary Appropriations to SUCs Rationalize education subsidies for SUCs and financial assistance to private colleges and universities Sustain budgetary appropriations, scholarships and loan schemes, and development of an inter-agency resource generation program Create the Coordinating Council on Accreditation composed of heads/representatives from the five private accrediting agencies namely: AACCUP, ACSCU-AAI, ALCU-COA, PAASCU and PACU-COA to set common accreditation standards. Establish an independent National Education and Testing Systems, but publicly funded. Evaluations and assessments are necessary means to establish the extent to which quality, relevance, and other educational goals are being met. This body is envisioned to coordinate and harmonize various existing agencies and efforts in this field and assume responsibility for the educational assessment at all levels basic, higher, and technical 166
195 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education education and skills development. Develop a program to address cost/economic problems resulting in the migration of students from private schools to public schools Find solutions to attaining a level playing field among SUCs and Private Institutions Design a scheme to address provision of tax credit to business corporations or individuals who will support educational programs of institutions (public and private), and/or individual students at all levels Workshop Chair: Co-Chair: Rapporteur: Dr. Vincent K. Fabella, President, Jose Rizal University Dr. Nenalyn P. Defensor Commissioner, Commission on Higher Education Dr. Esther B. Velasquez, President, Cebu Normal University 4:00 p.m. COFFEE BREAK 4:00 p.m. Meeting of Session Chairs & Rapporteurs DAY 2, PLENARY SESSION 2- FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, :30 a.m. 2:00 p.m. VENUE: MANILA HOTEL Tent City 8:30 a.m. Wrap-up per Workshop Group by the Rapporteurs 9:30 a.m. Presentation to the Plenary by Workshop Chairs 10:15a.m. Open Forum (snacks will be served) 11:30 a.m. LUNCH Note: Session Chairs and Rapporteurs will meet at 11:30 a.m. 12:30 p.m. to consolidate outputs to be submitted to the Presidential Task Force for Education 1:00 p.m. Presentation of Final Consolidated Report by the Presidential Task Force for Education 1:30 p.m. Covenant for Philippine Education Session Chair: Hon. Romulo L. Neri Secretary, Commission on Higher Education and Acting Chairman, Presidential Task Force for Education 167
196 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 2: The Manila Declaration for Philippine Education Presidential Task Force for Education Malacañang, Manila FIRST BIENNIAL NATIONAL CONGRESS ON EDUCATION Harmonizing and Synchronizing Philippine Education For Enhanced Quality and Relevance MANILA DECLARATION FOR PHILIPPINE EDUCATION Realizing that education is a basic and pre-eminent human right and that it is directed to the full development of human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedom, we, the participants and stakeholders present in the First Biennial National Congress on Education hereby affirm collectively and individually that: 1. Education is a responsibility of all sectors and stakeholders and, as such, we are responsible for initiating and implementing programs that will increase the retention and achievement rates of pupils/students, for upgrading the competencies of teachers and faculty, and for providing sufficient logistics support to attain the vision of every Filipino Family for every child to have an access to quality education for his/her development as a whole person, as a successful entrepreneur and as a productive and responsible citizen; 2. The First Biennial National Congress on Philippine Education has taken place at a crucial time when we are at the height of pursuing aggressive and innovative plans to address the challenges confronting our educational system; 3. This Congress is a premier forum to come up with one coherent Plan of Action for national reforms and harmonization of the trifocalized educational system under the Philippine Main Education Highway concept; and 4. The recommendations of the six workshop groups are relevant, creative, responsive and urgent for appropriate action by the Office of the President, the Department of Education, Commission on Higher Education and the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority, the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Local Government Units, and all instrumentalities of Government. In this concord, for the Main Education Highway to be fully operationalized and to ensure that those passing the highway are provided with relevant educational interventions and kept on the right track towards attaining a globally competitive and high quality human resource, we hereby jointly declare and commit; EDUCATION SECTOR; Basic, Technical-Vocational and Higher Education: 1. To ensure the engagement and participation of all education sub-sectors and their support systems in the formulation, implementation and monitoring of strategies for educational development including the learners, teachers, parents, communities, non-governmental organizations and other bodies considered as stakeholders; 2. To enhance the status, morale and professionalism of teachers so that teachers at all levels of the education system shall be respected and adequately remunerated; shall have access to training and professional development and support, including open and distance learning; and shall be able to participate in decisions affecting their professional lives and teaching environments; and 3. To set priorities, define policies; establish targets and progress indicators to ensure equitable allocation of resources, regular monitoring of performance, and assessment of qualitative and quantitative outcomes particularly those rationalized during the workshops. LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNITS: 1. To increase investment and allocate more resources to support the provision of quality education; 2. To mobilize other LGU resources through closer coordination with Sangguniang Bayan, Sangguniang Kabataan and Sangguniang Barangay; 3. To reinvent and strengthen the Local School Boards into a functional body that will catalyze the community into working together to improve the learning performance of students. 4. To create a strong constituency for education by building stakeholdership and community 168
197 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education participation in improving the quality of basic education in every locality; and 5. To pass or promulgate ordinances that will institutionalize reform processes in improving the governance and delivery of education. BUSINESS & INDUSTRY SECTOR: 1. To rally the local, regional and national business and industry sectors to provide the much needed logistic support for sustained and continuing programs for training/skills upgrading and employment opportunities; 2. To assume full supportive role to the educational institutions: basic, technical vocational and higher education in the implementation of policies and standards to produce globally competitive human resource; and 3. To tighten linkages with the academe and the appropriate accrediting and licensing bodies to ensure world-class professionals and skilled human resource. THUS, we, the 830 participants to the First Biennial National Congress on Education, hereby affix our signature as indication of our commitment towards attaining quality education for all Filipinos. MANILA HOTEL TENT CITY Manila, Philippines January 31 February 1, 2008 Appendix 3: Workshop Background Papers Appendix 3-A: Workshop 1 The Main Education Highway: Addressing Stakeholders Support for Basic Education by Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J. Appendix 3-B: Workshop 2 Technical Working Paper on Improving Teacher Competencies in the Basic Education Level & Faculty Development in Tertiary Education Level Appendix 3-C: Workshop 3 Tighter Coordination between the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and the Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA) Appendix 3-D: Workshop 4-A(1) Tighten Linkages between Higher Education and Industry Appendix 3-E: Workshop 4-A (2) Responding to the Global Demand for Filipino Talent by Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J. Appendix 3-F: Workshop 4-A (3) Industry-Academe Bridging Program Initiatives by Ma. Teresita P. Medado, Managing Director, The APC Center Appendix 3-G: Workshop 4-A (4) Driving Breakthrough Growth in the Philippine O&O Sector Appendix 3-H: Workshop 4-A (5) The Philippine Electronics Industry Appendix 3-I: Workshop 5 Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of the Three Education Agencies of Government Appendix 3-J: Workshop 6 Student Loan Program for the Philippines by Mona Dumlao Valisno, PhD and Reynaldo T. Peña, EdD 169
198 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 3-A: Workshop 1 The Main Education Highway: Addressing Stakeholders Support for Basic Education Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J. First Biennial National Congress on Education January 31 February 1, 2008 Manila Hotel Introduction In this presentation, allow me to proceed from the talk I gave at the Annual Scientific Meeting of the National Academy of Science and Technology last July The topic given to me was Building a Science Culture in line with the theme of the conference : A Progressive Philippines Anchored on Science Culture in the Philippines. You have heard enough about our situation in science and mathematics education, that we rank number 36 out of 39 in the TIMSS, that performance on the National Achievement Test (NAT) is below 50% in so many schools and school divisions and so on. The following slides from the presentation of Dr. Vivian Talisayon during the roundtable discussion last February 16, 2007, Special Science Classes: Summary of Findings show that even Philippine Science High School (PSHS), our top science high school, performs only at the mean of Singapore, Korea and Hong Kong in mathematics and significantly below the mean in science. At the same time, we hear good news: our young people winning prestigious competitions abroad in science and Mean Raw Score Mean Raw Score Mean Raw Score Mean Raw Score Figure 13. Mean Raw Score in Mathematics of PSHS vs Sample Students of PHL and Selected mathematics, the work of the Mathematics Trainers Guild (MTG) and the outstanding achievements of the students in their training programs. We have been at this for a long time. There have been many interventions: the New Math of the 1960 s, the Secondary Education Development Project (SEDP), the DOST DECS Engineering and Science Education Project (ESEP) and the recent Revised Basic Education Curriculum (RBEC). There have been many conferences like ours and many resolutions such as we have been making, addressed to DOST, Dep Ed, CHED and other institutions. But the same pattern emerges a few bright lights and victories and a mass of poor performance. While we are proud of the bright lights and victories, I would like to recall a quote from a Japanese mathematics education colleague, who said, We believe that a country can only march as fast as its slower members. The Philippines will march as fast as the majority of our students and not at the pace of the few at the top. The challenge for us then is to ask how we can make progress for the majority of our students. c` c` Figure 13. Mean Raw Score in Mathematics of PSHS vs Sample Students of PHL and Selected Ghana South Ghana Africa South Botswana Africa Sample Students-PHL Botswana Sample Students-PHL Indonesia International Indonesia Mean International Mean Australia Australia USA USA England England Malaysia Malaysia PSHS South Africa PSHS Japan South Africa Ghana Japan Taiwan Ghana Botswana Taiwan Korea Sample Students-PHL Botswana PSHS Hongkong Korea Sample Students-PHL Hongkong Singapore Indonesia PSHS Singapore International Indonesia Mean International Mean Malaysia Malaysia Australia AustraliaUSA USA Japan Japan Korea Hongkong Korea Hongkong England England Singapore Singapore Taiwan Taiwan Figure 14. Mean Raw Score in Science of PSHS vs Sample Students of PHL and Selected Countries Figure 14. Mean Raw Score in Science of PSHS vs Sample Students of PHL and Selected Countries Part I: Defining a Solution In that address on Building a Science Culture, I began by saying that the culture of the natural sciences and mathematics is not to bewail or just describe a problem, but to solve them. I added that if we were to be scientific ourselves in approaching the theme of the annual meeting, it is not enough for us to 170
199 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education describe the problems or write resolutions about them. We should actually engage the problems and show that we are contributing to solving them. We have to engage Philippine culture and move it into a problem-solving mode, away from a blaming or complaining mode. Assuming then that we are going to actually engage and help solve the problem, how do we proceed? Particularly, because years of effort and frustration have shown us that the problem is very difficult! We have to begin by defining what we mean by a solution. Frequently, in research on mathematics and science education (or education, in general), the methodology is to propose an approach towards improving performance, then do a small scale pilot study, which normally shows that the approach works. The approach is then attempted on a larger scale and usually fails. The conclusion is usually to blame the teachers or the principals. But from the point of view of building a progressive Philippines anchored on science, the approach has to be considered a failure. It did not solve the intended problem of improving science or math education or education in general on a reasonable scale. Since our goal is to improve education for the majority, a solution or a possible solution should have the following characteristics: be on a reasonable scale, at least a cluster of schools can be replicated successfully within normal parameters in the system (including the actual situation of teachers and principals) Part II : The Way Forward on the Mass (Some Relative Success Stories) I would like to share some relative success stories on a relatively large scale. I shall use as a framework a paper I wrote in 1983 for a conference in Japan. Addressing the Social Context of Philippine Schools: Macro-Problems and Micro-Problems. After a decade of working on math education, I shared my reflections in a 1983 paper for a Regional Conference on Mathematics Education held in Japan: We can classify problems of mathematical education into two types: the first we might call micro-problems or problems internal to mathematical education. These would relate to questions of curriculum, teacher training, textbooks, use of calculators, problem solving and the like. The second we might call macro-problems. These are problems affecting mathematics education because of pressures from other sectors of society: economy, politics, culture, language, etc. One of the features of a developed society is a reasonable differentiation of sectors and functions of society. While given sectors are, of course, interdependent and affect one another, they also have some reasonable autonomy. School budgets may increase or decrease, but they have some stability and so it is possible to plan. Teachers get a sufficient (though not high) salary so they can concentrate on their teaching chores. But in contrast, structures in developing societies are not sufficiently developed to provide (for example) education and culture with sufficient freedom from the pressures of politics and economics. Teachers may be called upon to perform many civic duties to the detriment of their classroom work. Their salaries may not be sufficient for them to be able to concentrate on their work. Budgets may be unstable and information and opinion tightly controlled. In the first situation (of developed countries), it makes sense to concentrate on internal problems of mathematical education. One has enough scope and freedom within the educational system to study and plan changes with hope of implementation. In the second case, however, the problems which one experiences most intensely are not internal to mathematics education, but due to pressures from outside society. Until some structures are established to provide some scope and freedom for the educational system, it is less useful to concentrate studies and plans on curriculum or other internal concerns. I then went through a more detailed analysis of the challenges of mathematics education from this perspective. In that same paper, I concluded as follows: The improvement of mathematics education in developing countries such as those of Southeast Asia requires continuing improvement of teacher - training, curriculum, textbooks (the internal concerns of mathematical education). However, their improvement is only possible if mathematical education has enough space and freedom (within the pressures of economics, culture, organization of education) so as to be able to plan and implement. It is the 171
200 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy experience of developing countries that pressures from other structures of society (economic, political, cultural) are often too strong for the system of mathematics education to work realistically on its internal concerns. From the experiences that will be described below, we can look at this approach to improving education in the social context of Philippine schools as: Creating the absorptive capacity of schools and clusters of schools to take in and implement significant reform and improvement (attending to the macro problems) Targeted and focused interventions to address priority needs (academic and non-academic) (attending to the micro-problems). This means meeting the schools where they are, setting next level targets with them, and moving them to the next level. Part IIa: School Based Management in TEEP This first example of a large scale reform project that tackled the macro-problems (created absorptive capacity in the school and community) and micro-problems (teachertraining, textbooks, lesson guides, etc.) is the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP). Engaging the community and creating absorptive capacity and bringing in targeted inputs. The Third Elementary Education Project defines school based management (SBM) as the decentralization of decision-making authority from central, regional, and division levels to individual school sites, uniting school heads, teachers, students as well as parents, the local government units and the community in promoting effective schools. Its main goal is to improve school performance and student achievement, where decision-making is made by all those who are closely involved with resolving the challenges of the individual schools so that the specific needs of the students will be served more effectively. Its objectives were to empower the school heads to provide leadership and to mobilize the community as well as local government units to invest time, money and effort in making the school a better place to learn, thus improving the educational achievement of the children. School Based Management is a framework that integrates several micro factors at play in SBM schools, namely, leadership (e.g. dynamic school heads) strong LGU-school or school-ptca partnership access to basic inputs like classrooms and textbooks focused teacher-competency development/insets support system at the district/division levels The community has to be involved and TEEP would not proceed in a given community, unless the community raised 10% counterpart funding. This would amount to about P10, There is a very touching story in Romblon. A community wanted so badly to get a School Improvement and Innovation Fund for their school (this was the overall name of the project support fund) that they each contributed funds from their own meager incomes. Their contribution was mostly in coins. Unfortunately, after counting all the coins on the deadline for approving projects, they had only P9000 of the expected The district supervisor was so moved by the community efforts that she gave the remaining money. Impact. For the TEEP schools, school based management has resulted in a bigger share of schools crossing the 75% mastery level and the 60% near-mastery level in the National Achievement Test. TEEP and non-teep schools started on the same level in SY but relatively more TEEP schools attained mastery level in SY Please refer to Appendix 1 for the comparator groups as well as the tables showing the percent surpassing the 75% mastery level as well as the 60% mastery level, in terms of overall performance as well as specific performance in Math and Science. It is worth noting the following: With the exception of Aklan+, all clusters experienced a decline in scores and rankings from SY to SY Nevertheless, TEEP SBM provinces sustained their lead relative to all other clusters. There is a relatively stronger improvement in mathematics: 22.6%9ELS and 18.2 Non-ELS achieving 75% mastery level, all others are lower, with Pampanga closest at 16.6%. At 60% mastery level, the performance gap is even clearer, with TEEP ELS at 59.5% and non-els at 172
201 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 46.3%. The improvement in mathematics is much stronger compared to improvement in science. The importance of addressing the implemented curriculum, the day-to-day work of teachers. What accounts for the significant improvement in mathematics? I received a phone call in August 2006 from Dr. Cynthia Bautista, excited about some results of their end-project evaluation of the Third Elementary Education Project. There had been significantly greater improvement in mathematics in the National Achievement Test (NAT) in several divisions of the TEEP. The resource persons in the study conducted by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), Lessons from the Third Elementary Education Project: Transforming Education on the Ground attributed the very good performance of TEEP in Mathematics to the Math Teachers Lesson Guide series prepared by Dep Ed and Ateneo which TEEP printed and distributed to all its teachers. Written by Master teachers in elementary and high school, the series drew from existing textbooks and improved on them. The following tables show the scores in Mathematics and Science in the National Achievement Test of the TEEP schools and the comparator groups: Math 2002/3 2003/4 2004/5 2005/6 TEEP SBM AKLAN CAGAYAN ILOILO PAMPANGA NCR ARMM Total Science 2002/3 2003/4 2004/5 2005/6 TEEP SBM AKLAN CAGAYAN ILOILO PAMPANGA NCR ARMM Total
202 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy What are these Lesson Guides? The Lesson Guides in Mathematics were prepared during the term of former Dep Ed Secretary Raul Roco. He invited us to a meeting in July 2001 to discuss what might be done to improve the performance of students in the different subject areas. We shared with Secretary Roco that the central problems continue to be the lack of teachers, need for teacher-training, lack of textbooks, classrooms and other basic needs. We then suggested that considering the situation in public schools, e.g., congested classrooms(65 70 class size in urban areas) lack of textbooks lack of library facilities or library materials for teachers absence of experts teachers may consult, the need is to provide textbooks for students and a self-contained reference material (guide) for teachers. The Dep Ed was able to provide Math textbooks for all high school students (1:1 ratio) during the time of former Secretary Roco. The series that was reproduced for all students was the only complete series available. Moving from the previous SEDP approach (spiral approach) to the discipline based approach (Elementary Algebra 1 st year, Intermediate Algebra 2 nd year, Geometry 3 rd year and Advanced Algebra and Trigonometry 4 th year), meant literally tearing apart the existing books and putting together the algebra parts, the geometry parts, and so on. (Later on, we realized how much improvement is necessary for the Geometry part. The deficiencies in Geometry were not very evident in the SEDP spiral curriculum.) This move could not be done for the elementary level since no complete textbook series from Grade 1 to Grade 6 was available. The Lesson Guides prepared by Dep Ed and Ateneo were designed to help the teachers in their day-to-day teaching. Each lesson Guide included: objectives for the lesson development of the lesson suggested examples and exercises suggested teaching strategies with provisions for higher order thinking skills (HOTS), multiple intelligences (MI) and values integration All work in the preparation of the lesson guides was a team effort among the Master teachers from public schools, the Dep Ed curriculum specialists and experienced teachers from the Ateneo de Manila Grade School and High School as well as the other Jesuit schools. The preparation of Math Lesson Guides was a large-scale effort within a short time frame. The Lesson Guides for High School Mathematics were completed within August 2001 March 2002 while the Lesson Guides for Elementary were prepared beginning December 2002 until April Teacher training was conducted for 1,971 high school mathematics teachers in 2002 and 2,210 elementary mathematics teachers in The lesson learned from this initiative on Lesson Guides is worth noting: Focusing on providing enough textbooks, teacher guides or workbooks and working patiently with the teachers to use these well (teacher training) is a way of making progress on a large scale. It is also important to note that the success of the TEEP schools with the Math Lesson Guides depended in great part on progress in the social environment of TEEP schools brought about by school-based management. SBM created the environment for reform, the absorptive capacity to make change. Part IIc: Capacity Building for Schools in Payatas thru Project SSPEEd and ACED The second example is a smaller scale effort by the Ateneo Center for Educational Development to see what it takes to help bring up poor elementary schools, mainly in Payatas, Quezon City. From research Ateneo had done in the early 1990s (led by Dr. Patricia Licuanan), it was seen that what differentiated high performing public elementary schools from low performing ones, given the same economic and demographic situation, was the leadership of the principal and the support of the community. We used this as a framework for our work with selected public elementary schools. In 2001, I initiated together with Mr. Washington Z. Sycip and Mr. Alfredo Velayo, Project SSPEEd or Sectoral Support for Public Elementary Education. Concerned with the declining standards of 174
203 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education education in the country, this project aimed to provide support to particular public elementary schools patterned after the involvement and experience of Ateneo de Manila in the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP). Project SSPEEd provided support to the following partner schools from 2001 to 2004 : P. Burgos Elementary School (Manila), Payatas Elementary School (Quezon City), Bagong Silangan Elementary School (Quezon City), Payatas B-Annex Elementary School (Quezon City) and Kalayaan elementary School (Caloocan City). From this project, the Ateneo Center for Educational Development (ACED) learned significant lessons and insights on how to fuse macro-level goals and micro-level initiatives and involvement. Project SSPEEd provided a framework on how institutions can assist public schools develop and at the same time create impact in the surrounding urban poor communities. When Project SSPEEd ended in 2004, ACED pursued a closer partnership with four public elementary schools in the 2 nd district of Quezon City --- Payatas B Annex Elementary School Payatas C Elementary School Lupang Pangako Elementary School Bagong Silangan Elementray School Given the population of Payatas, these are very large schools. This closer partnership with the schools began with data gathering. Much work was then done to bring the community together (principal, teachers, parents, barangay officials, students) and do strategic planning and prioritizing of goals and objectives with them. This partnership, which ACED has carefully nurtured these past years has led to notable results. Because the need for buildings and classrooms came from the shared and careful planning by the whole community, Mayor Belmonte was impressed and moved forward to build the needed buildings, classrooms and comfort rooms. The private sector also came in with other needed inputs, like textbooks, workbooks, etc. The principals and teachers have become more confident and effective in their areas of responsibility as a result of empowerment programs and teacher-training programs. Student achievement has improved in different degrees. The most dramatic improvement is in Lupang Pangako Elementary School where the ranking of the school in the division level has moved up from rank 94 in 2003 to rank 18 in 2004 to rank 16 in 2005 and to rank 9 for The overall strategy for improving schools employed by ACED consists of three important steps: 1. school-profiling 2. strategic planning 3. targeted interventions School-Profiling. It is crucial to conduct a simple school-based research or data gathering process to generate baseline data on the school s actual situation. Previous experiences have shown that the school s actual situation is usually different from the perceived situation. For example, sometimes the school community think they need computers but the actual situation shows that the school has more basic needs like classrooms or toilets. The needs that will surface from the data will have to be addressed for interventions to be effective (e.g. basic infrastructure needs). Strategic Planning. While all schools have development plans appearing in some form (e.g. School Improvement Plan), this phase of the overall strategy for improving schools emphasizes the involvement of the entire school community (principal, teachers, students, parents, barangay officials) in the exercise. It is important for the school community to come together and make the decision to work towards the improvement of their school. The output of this phase of the overall school improvement strategy is a doable and realistic school development plan. Targeted Interventions. Interventions must be targeted for these to translate to positive results in student performance and achievement. Most interventions in the past have been supply driven. Institutions providing interventions like teacher training proceeded with their own idea of what should be helpful for the public school teachers. Experience has shown that it is important to have a clear sense of what is actually needed out there in the field. Otherwise, the intervention will have very little to do with the actual classroom situation. Targeted interventions that have emerged to be helpful include the following: Principal-Empowerment Programs. Based on the research conducted by the Ateneo in 1994, 175
204 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy the leadership of the principal is a key variable in the school improvement process. It is thus important to empower the school principal so that he assumes the responsibility to take the lead in the school improvement process. Leadership Development Programs. Empowering the school principal includes strengthening his competence in key areas like supervision and mentoring, conflict management and networking, among others. Teacher Empowerment Programs. Teaching is a very demanding responsibility and public school teachers usually teach under very difficult and challenging situations. It is thus important to give teachers the opportunity to revisit the meaning of their vocation so that they can continue teaching with passion and commitment. Teacher Training Programs. It is important to provide teacher training that is directly useful to teachers in their day-to-day classroom work rather than enrichment stuff. It has also emerged that the availability of a useful material like a Lesson Guide, is crucial to an effective teacher-training program. Such material directs the program, allows the program to focus on important aspects of the day-to-day lessons and provides the teachers with a useful resource material that they can continue to refer to after the training program. Certificate or Degree Programs for Teachers. For some teachers, formal certificate or degree programs can be useful. From Project SSPEEd and the work of ACED in Payatas schools, we have seen two things: the crucial role of the school principal and the community and the importance of a holistic and collaborative approach in school development and improvement. We have also seen that local government, especially Mayors, are a major partner in improving the schools. The lesson learned from the work with the public schools in Project SSPEEd and ACED is quite clear: The way forward on the mass is to invest in capacity building for all major players: the principal, teachers, parents and barangay officials. When the principal and the community are organized and have good plans, there can be very good response from local government and the private sector. Part IId: Building Leadership and Community Support through Synergeia The third example is the work of Synergeia Foundation. Synergeia Foundation, Inc. is a coalition of individuals, institutions and organizations working together to improve the quality of basic education. Synergeia and its partners implement systematic programs to improve the provision of basic education in more than 265 municipalities in the country. Synergeia has focused on building leadership and community support through the following: a. Focus on Local School Board (Provincial, City, Municipal) b. Engage whole community in assessing situation, setting goals, deciding on priority objectives c. Focus on elementary schools, beginning at Grade 1, esp English and Mathematics d. Provision of basic instructional materials (lesson plans for day to day use of teachers, workbooks for children, audio-visual materials) e. In-service training for teachers and principals The programs of Synergeia have already resulted in significant improvements in the reading and mathematics proficiency of elementary students, and more importantly, in local governance. In monitoring the performance of participating schools, Synergeia uses the following metrics: National Achievement Test (NAT) for Grade School of Deped DOLCH Basic Sight Words Test English Comprehension Test developed by Synergeia Synergeia in Bulacan. Synergeia began working in Bulacan in 2000 under the leadership of Governor Josie de la Cruz. Over 620,000 pupils from grades one to six in 496 elementary schools in Bulacan are participating in the Synergeia program. In the 2000 National Achievement Test (NAT), pupils had an average score of 39.40% in Mathematics and 40.23% in English. Six years later, after interventions of Project JOSIE, pupils achieved a NAT average score of 64.39% in Mathematics and 65.45% in English. 176
205 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Synergeia in Lipa City, Batangas. Among the 17 communities that pioneered the reading proficiency program, the most dramatic gain was achieved by Project K in Lipa City, Batangas. At the start of the project, grade one pupils proficiency was measured at 25 percent. This meant, children could read only 1 out of 4 words correctly. Mayor Vilma Santos-Recto was floored upon seeing the results. Fueled by the urgency of the education crisis, various stakeholders including De La Salle Lipa, the local DepEd, local school board and parents, worked together to improve the way children learn how to read in school. After one year, the Division Achievement test results showed that on the average, grade one pupils could already read at 54.0 percent, doubling their score in the previous year s exam. In , Lipa City s NAT average was 44.85, in , it was The English average in was 40.15, in , it was Once again, the way forward on the mass is to invest in capacity building for the entire community. The most challenging area of work for Synergeia now is in ARMM. The developments in ARMM can be taken up in another report. Part IV: Postscript---Focus on the Day-to-Day Classroom (the implemented curriculum) Teacher Training for Day-to-Day Teaching.We established the Mathematical Society of the Philippines in 1972, the same year as the establishment of the Southeast Asian Mathematical Society. These societies from the start were involved in helping develop both university and research mathematics as well as mathematics education and teacher training. In our teacher training, I soon realized that our approach of providing generic training and enrichment materials or talks was not addressing the needs of the teachers. They needed something they could use in their day-to-day delivery of their classes. So, together with Sr. Iluminada Coronel, we began to work with their textbooks, providing support exercises, etc. MTAP continues to carry on this work and it was along the same lines that we carried out the work with textbooks and Teacher Guides under then Secretary Roco in As a side note, when we were discussing this recently with USecs and ASecs of DepEd, they laughed and said that teachers have a comment about generic and enrichment type seminars, their Three T s: Tanggap, Tiklop, Tago. That is, they take the handouts, pack them and then put them away. Benchmarking Using Tests Like TIMSS. One way to move forward is to use exams like TIMSS or College Entrance Tests in the Philippines or School Leaving Exams in other countries (like the Primary School Leaving Exams, O-Level Exams and A-Level Exams of Singapore) not just to compare performance, but to use them as a diagnostic. This means using the exams as a tool to identify the key areas where improvement or progress is most needed. It will be helpful to diagnose why students do poorly in these areas and then, using the data, develop interventions: appropriate teacher training, workbooks, lesson guides, etc. to address these problems. It will also be important to measure whether the interventions are working. We have found it important to engage the teachers in this exercise: get the teachers to do the answer key (this helps them engage the challenges coming from the tests) get them to correct the students papers or at least some of them (they will get a lot of aha experiences seeing that what they thought they taught did not really sink in) then invite reflection on how to move forward Part V : Goals for Improving Pre-Schools, Elementary Schools and High Schools To improve the state of education in the country, it is imperative to give due attention to the components of the main education highway that constitute basic education: pre- school, elementary school and high school. Pre-Schools. At present there are barangay-based and school-based pre-schools where a big number of the children who proceed to public elementary schools acquire some form of pre-school education. Goal : strengthen the current programs implemented by the barangay day-care centers and pre-schools so that these develop into more formal and effective pre-schools Elementary Schools. Based on data for school year , there are 41, 949 elementary schools in the Philippines today and of these, 37,161 are public elementary schools. About 12,083,977 Filipino schoolchildren are enrolled in public elementary schools. About 56% of those who enter Grade 1 are able to complete their elementary schooling. Goal : eliminate drop-outs from the different grade levels and continuously improve student 177
206 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy performance on the National Achievement Test as well as the Division Achievement Tests High Schools. There are 4,915 public secondary schools in the country today. About 5,028,083 Filipino schoolchildren are enrolled in public high schools. Available data shows that only about 54% of those who enter secondary schools are able to complete their high school education. Goal : eliminate drop-outs from the different year levels and continuously improve student performance in the National Achievement Test ; identify in some clear terms e.g. through the National Career Assessment Exams, students skills and aptitudes, towards moving on to either college or technical-vocational options The discussions earlier on School-Based Management and TEEP, Capacity Building for Schools in Payatas through Project SSPEEd, and Building Leadership and Community Support through Synergeia suggest promising strategies for improving basic education. Conclusion To improve the main education highway in the Philippines, it is important that we actually engage the problems that face us and show that we are contributing to solving them. While depressing statistical figures and reports on the state of education in the Philippines continue to discourage us, we look forward to a better future through the inspiring results from initiatives like the TEEP School Based Management Approach, the Math Lesson Guides, the focus of Synergeia on building leadership and community support, the work of Project SSPEEd and the ACED, the dedication of MTG in developing talent among the youth and similar efforts. We realize the importance of giving attention to the social environment of our schools if we are to improve and develop our schools and educational system. We have seen that to move forward on the mass, it is important to invest in capacity building for the entire school community: principal, teachers, parents and baranggay officials. For the development of our top talent, there is a need to benchmark explicitly with the best among our neighbors. To move towards improving the main education highway, it is important that we focus on the day-to-day classroom (the implemented curriculum) through teacher training and other interventions that give attention to the day-to-day delivery of lessons and benchmarking activities like learning from best practices of other schools and using reputable examinations to improve the standards of our schools. The following highlights of the emerging strategies are worth emphasizing: 1. In the school development and improvement process, it is important to exert effort to create the absorptive capacity of schools or clusters of schools. 2. In the school development and improvement process, the leadership of the school principal is crucial. It is thus important to empower the principal by stressing his role and strengthening his competence in leadership and management. 3. The involvement of the entire school community is a key variable in the development and improvement of schools. The entire community must come together and own the desire to work towards developing and improving the school. 4. Experience has shown that teacher training provided by elementary and high school master teachers is effective. Elementary and high school teachers can learn a lot from experienced elementary and high school teachers because they are exposed to similar situations and experiences. 5. Basic needs must be given priority over non-essential factors. It is fundamental and non-negotiable to make sure that there are enough classrooms, necessary facilities are adequate and instructional materials are available to the teachers and the students (textbooks, workbooks, teachers guides). If these basic needs are not provided, interventions will not lead to improvements in student achievement no matter how well designed these are. 6. In any school development and improvement process, follow through is very important. Small improvements and successes can be significant over time but it is important to track the improvements and take note of the factors that contribute positively so that these may be strengthened further. 7. It is important to implement interventions on a reasonable scale and time frame. Pilot studies are always successful as small-scale efforts but not necessarily applicable to large-scale implementation, which is what the country needs now, given the state of public basic education. 178
207 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 8. Metrics are important in the pursuit of goals. Metrics can provide direction and guide the journey towards the goals. Such instruments as the DOLCH test ( for reading ability), the Division or National Achievement Tests and the National Career Assessment Examination may be used in the process of improving student performance and raising student achievement. 9. In monitoring the metrics, e.g. results of the Division Achievement Test or National Achievement Test, it will be helpful to go beyond averages in reporting results. Averages do not really mean much. What would be helpful is to break up the results into categories per school in terms of the number of students who scored above 75%, from 50% - 75%, etc. Such data can serve as a more useful guide in the improvement process. 10. Much can be done in collaboration with the local governments. Many improvements can be realized on the local government level and do not have to wait for action from the level of the national government. Acknowledgements I would like to thank Dr. Cynthia Rose Bautista for sharing the report and experiences of TEEP. I personally directed the planning that led to TEEP, the development of the Division Elementary Development Plan (DEDP) and it is a tribute to those who carried out the work, especially Dr. Malou Doronila, that we have achieved such significant results. I would like to thank Ms. Anne Lan Candelaria for the outstanding work with the Payatas Schools. The work has now been taken over by Mrs. Carmela C. Oracion, who also led the work for developing the Lesson Guides for Mathematics. Finally, thanks to Dr. Milwida Guevara, President of Synergeia Foundation, and her team for the outstanding work of Synergeia Foundation in engaging mayors and the community, revitalizing the local school boards, and truly improving education for public elementary school students in so many municipalities and cities. I would like to thank Ms. Trissa Manalastas for her patience in organizing the data for me for this presentation. Appendix 3-B: Workshop 2 Technical Working Paper on Improving Teacher Competencies in the Basic Education Level & Faculty Development in Tertiary Education Level A. Introduction Effective teachers are critical to student achievement. Research indicates that teacher quality accounts for between 40 and 90 percent of differences in student test scores. The importance of quality teachers to student achievement is evident, but improving education professionals performance remains a challenge. Pre-service preparation and in-service training both critical elements of professional development have the potential to help teachers develop more knowledge and skills, enabling them to meet the challenges they face in their classrooms By Katherine S. Neville, Rachel H. Sherman, and Carol E. Cohenv, 2005, authors of study on Preparing and Training Professionals Comparing Education to Six Other Fields, The Finance Project 179
208 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The pronouncement of H.E. Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo that the sooner the deficiencies of the country's education system are fixed, the better serve as the over-all challenge for the Workshop 2 which focuses on the assessment and review of topic on improving the Teachers Competencies and Faculty Development in the tertiary level. This statement was issued recognizing the real status of the Philippine Educational system which is described as in an alarming deteriorating state giving special mention of teachers competencies, particularly in the English language. In her statement, the President called for the strengthening of both the pre-service and in-service programs. The new General Education curriculum, according to CHED s Technical Panel, includes 24 units of the English language, 12 units of Science, 12 units of mathematics, and 12 units of social Sciences (total of 60 units) that may help solve the problem with the present BS Education curriculum. On the other hand, teachers who were not able to avail of the new curriculum shall undergo intensive teacher-trainings (Source: Profile of the First Biennial National Congress on Education, January 31 to February 1, 2008). This technical working paper is also premised on the statement of Ms. Katherine S. Neville, et. Al., (refer to Box). The technical working paper while lacking concrete and consolidated data on the total number of teachers and faculty who has availed of programs or trainings nation-wide is cognizant of the positive developments as well as setbacks that were experienced in the course of implementing programs and policies to improve or upgrade the teachers competencies and enhance the development of faculty in the tertiary level towards the attainment of quality education and relevance of learning. We also saw the entire educational system effort s to improve the coordination among agencies and programs but which need further re-visiting. At this point, special reference to the Department of Education in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (DepEd-ARMM) showed that capacity building interventions in the ARMM is not lacking and has positive results but the problem of application is hampered by lack or inadequacies of corresponding support for books, instructional materials, incentives for teachers, and other major schooling provisions. The findings also revealed that different agencies implementing the capacity-building for teachers and school managers that: programs provided were inadequate in terms of scope, duration, content, training strategy, distribution of opportunity, among others. (Source: Capacity-Building Needs Assessment of the DepEd ARMM, EQuALLS-CREATIVE USAID, 2006). DepEd-ARMM has three paths of education: Basic education, Alternative Learning and Madrasah Education. One significant breakthrough pursued by the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education (OPAE) in was the formulation of the Edukasyon para sa Kapayapaan at Kaunlaran sa Mindanao (EDUKKMIN). It was launched through President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo s announcement in February 8, Two major components of the EDUKKMIN were Madrasah Education and Teachers Training. Two EOs was issued by the President; EO 283 creating the Madrasah Development Council and EO 362 transferring the functions of the Madrasah Development Council to the Department of Education. To date, the implementation of the mainstreaming of the Madrasah Education System to the national education system with the DepEd National Office and DepEd-ARMM closely working together has already achieved a significant breakthrough and an extensive trainings provided for both the DepEd teachers and the Madaris teachers. The trainings focused on: capability/capacity building, competence upgrading, skills enhancement in English, Science, Math and ICT-applications; and instructional materials development and usage, classroom management, and strengthening of community participation and/or support. Therefore, success stories in the ARMM maybe adopted for implementation in non-armm area where there the Muslim population is high. OPAE succeeded in conducting dialogues with the City Mayors in Metro Manila that initially sparked the interest to look into the educational needs of Muslims in Metro Manila and increased some of the schooling provisions in the DepEd schools (i.e., Payatas, Culiat, Bagong Silang, Maharlika Village, Quiapo). These efforts can be re-visited and evaluated vis-à-vis the present programs of both DepEd Central and ARMM, as significant sector considering that the biggest rate of poor educational achievements, high drop-out rates, low cohort survival, etc. are located in Muslim communities. The EOs served as important basis for the refilling of Fund Assistance for Madrasah Education Act of B. Background Information The bases for discussion in Workshop 2 on improving the Teachers Competencies and 180
209 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Faculty Development are the PCER Recommendations, Presidential Task Force for Education mandate and the directives of H.E. President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. 1. Proposal of PCER No. 5: Faculty Development at the Tertiary Level The quality of higher education in any institution depends on the quality of its faculty. For this reason the government prescribes that teachers at the tertiary level must have a Master s degree in the field in which they teach. Unfortunately only about one third of college faculty members in the Philippines have this credential. Efforts will be directed towards increasing the number of tertiary-level teachers who possess a Master's degree (at present only 33% out of 80,000 have such a degree). An increment of 37% is desired for the master's degree holders. By so doing, it is hoped that the level of teaching and research capabilities will be raised specifically in the following areas: Science, Mathematics, Engineering and Information Technology, Business and Management, English, Social Sciences, History and Values Education. It is the purpose of this proposal to launch a nationwide system using a network of key centers of teacher training to raise the numbers of qualified teachers with Master s degrees from 30% to 70%. Objective of the faculty development is to implement a study program that will enhance the teachers capability and allow them to obtain a master s degree inn the areas that they are teaching. The programs main target is to increase and deepen the teachers knowledge of the subjects that they teach. The program should be able to reach the teachers on the different regions through innovative approaches, for example modular programs, which can be credited by the COEs or CODs towards a master s degree. The modules, to be developed by the COE/COD with existing accredited master s program, may be offered during the weekends or vacation breaks. To achieve the above target, CHED has identified schools and programs that will form the network to implement the faculty development program. A consortia was also encouraged within the network to widen the reach of various master's/ doctoral programs. COEs and CODs are commissioned to become program providers, e.g. development of modules for master's programs, which may be either thesis or non-thesis, full-time or part-time study, conveniently scheduled on weekends and vacation breaks. The scheme is expected to reach teachers in the different regions. Cross-registration will also be encouraged. 2. MTDPHE, ; CHAPTER 4: Development Intervention in Higher Education a. Upgrading of faculty qualifications b. Provision of graduate study scholarships to college faculty in English, math, Science and other priority disciplines; c. Encouraging all HEIs to develop a medium-term faculty development plan for upgrading the qualifications of their faculty according to their thrusts and typology; d. Provision of incentives for the development of various graduate programs and strengthening of graduates education and continuing education in all fields; e. Implementation of faculty exchange programs between local and foreign HEIs; and Implementation of the CHED Search for Most Outstanding Faculty 3. PCER PROPOSAL NO. 6: Strengthening Teacher Competencies at the Basic Educational level Teachers in the 21 st century need new and expanded skills besides just knowledge of the subject matter. They need to be empowered in four specific key result areas (KRAs) to meet the demands of the future: ability to teach reading and comprehension, initiative and creativity, training in values education, and a familiarity in, and use of instructional technology. This proposal aims to build on similar past efforts and to provide the country s teachers with these four capabilities, through a program that is in-service, innovative, nationwide, and conducted in a decentralized manner. The pre-services curriculum in Centers for Excellence for Teacher Education may well consider them, too. Project TEACH (Teacher Empowerment to Achieve Competence and Humaneness); aim of developing teachers as: a. An IT teacher, who is adept at using new learning technologies as a means of enhancing the teaching-learning process b. A reading teachers c. A critical/analytical and creative thinker 181
210 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy d. A values education teacher imbued with the ideals of integrity, honesty and patriotism and work values. Serving as unifying framework of Project TEACH are the following integrated key ideas: a. Every teacher must be a reading teacher. She/he must be a values education teacher as well and one that is a critical/analytical and creative thinker herself/himself. She/he must be aware of how to use IT as an effective tool for the teaching and learning process Teachers must be so trained as to possess these qualities; b. In-service training (INSET) programs must be research-based, implying that means must be exerted to ensure that there is an empirical basis for designing a particular training program, e.g., doing a Technical Needs Analysis (TNA). Although this is assumed to be a basic concern, in reality, this is not always done. c. INSET programs must be supportive of efforts towards achieving 'decentralization.' Such programs could be under the care and supervision of each of the 143 Schools Division Superintendents across the country; thus training could be carried out simultaneously; d. As regards budget, in addition to the 5% of the Maintenance and Other Operating Expenses (MOOE) which by tradition is earmarked for INSET programs, it will be left to the discretion of the Regional Directors (RDs) and Superintendents to determine what training packages they can do given their limited budget. Likewise, other funding sources will have to be identified, both at the operating level of the divisions, and at a central coordination and monitoring level; e. Engaging in a tie-up with the National Educators Academy of the Philippines (NEAP) and with existing Teacher Education Institutions (TEIs) and Centers of Excellence (COEs) is expected. f. The training programs will focus on the four KRAs and will be designed to reach out in stages, according to the readiness of particular divisions to launch this, until the total target of 419,954 public school teachers all over the country. Private school teachers will be encouraged to participate and attend these training sessions as well. 4. Issues and Concerns vis-à-vis Proposed Specific Target Goals The matrix shows the various target goals and corresponding issues and concerns initially identified by the PTFE in consultation with Experts and/or Consultants. In this regard, several general guide questions are hereby presented to steer the direction of the workshop discussion with the end view of coming up with appropriate, responsive and doable options. These set of recommendations will be submitted to the Presidential Task Force for Education who will, in turn, provide the appropriate forum and action for its adoption and/or review and final submission for Presidential/Executive Actions, legislations and directives from respective education agencies including the business & industry sector and the Local Government Units as the major key player/stakeholders. 1. To what extent has the teacher s trainings, seminars, and related programs aimed at improving their competencies has been availed by intended beneficiaries? Is there an equitable distribution of access or opportunity for participation across the country or in regions where quality of education is most problematic? 2. Are the training modules, content, methodologies and length of the activity responsive and relevant to specific location needs? How and who were these that crafted the various modules? Was there a pre-test or pre-validation done to find out the weak areas? 3. Are there data that would show the impact or results of trainings, seminars and other relevant interventions across the country vis-à-vis the total number of trainees? Over-all how many have been reached and helped? Has there been wide dissemination of the information across the country? 4. Has the National Education Agency done an inventory or benchmarking of all initiatives to improve teachers competencies and faculty development implemented or programmed for implementation including the outcomes (i.e., increased pupil retention rate, higher achievement rates in examinations, other education performance indicators, etc.) 182
211 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 5. What incentives are offered to high performing teachers as a result of improved competencies/faculty development interventions: i.e., trainings, continuing education programs through distance education mode? 6. Can our programs and policies to improve teachers competencies and faculty development be at par with international models or standards? Or can our best teachers be globally competitive with other teachers of the developed countries? 7. Over-all, is there a need to review and assess the various teachers training scheme, modules and approaches to produce the kind of teachers and faculty to deliver quality education to the children, students and professionals as well and be positively held accountable or responsible for the dramatic improvement of our educational system in terms of increase of retention and achievement rates, employability, ICT skilled (i.e., e-learning, ICT technologies application)? The above questions are framed to generate more specific questions during the workshop and draw targets or goals set for the discussion and determining workable or doable options. Workshop No. 2 Matrix: Target Goal Promote Continuing Professional Education of public and private school teachers Adopt an appropriate curriculum design, content, teaching methodologies and assessment system for in-service and pre-service training of teachers Strengthen coordination with accredited Teachers Education Institutions. Centers of Excellence and Development and Autonomous and Deregulated Colleges and Universities in the implementation of Teacher Education Programs and Trainings, In-Service and Pre-Service trainings Issues & Concerns for Participants Reactions and basis for recommended options The need to establish a benchmark on the various programs or training modules for related to the continuing professional development of public and private school teachers; Ad hoc bodies of experts in various fields of specializations or disciplines including teacher education have also been strengthened to provide the required expertise and serve as consultative and advisory bodies. These are the Technical Panels which are involved in the areas of development and revision of policies and standards, setting directions for specific programmes, and monitoring and evaluating of programmes. This dimension leads to the general issue of what to teach in pre-service training and how to teach it. This is of course a key question since the answer defines the content and basic hypothetical organization of the foundation of professional training for future teachers. DepEd and CHED to pursue the designing of synchronized curriculum, content and improved teaching methodologies and assessment system for in-service and pre-service training of teachers What could be the best coordination scheme or mechanism to harmonize the turf issues of programs and funding of each agency? What body could provide an over-arching coordination and monitoring of progress or implementation? Maybe we see the need to review and assess or evaluate the impact of the implementation and find out how to further strengthen the scheme? To what percent has the COE & COD been able to touch-base or availed of (number of graduates for masters and/or doctoral programs particularly in education.) 183
212 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Matrix continued... Emphasize English, Math and Science and Technology in basic and tertiary education curricula Design and implement a tracking system for implementation of minimum academic qualifications of faculty members in public and private HEIs Design an implementation plan for the National Competency Based Teacher Standards (NCBTS) to provide teachers with new and expanded skills including the use of instructional technology, alternative mode of delivery using e-learning technologies or facilities Need to establish a data or inventory of trainings, projects funded by various local and foreign funding agency; Assess the performance of those who have availed of the INSET trainings vis-à-vis student achievement (basic education level) and graduate performance (tertiary) Anyone who chooses a teaching career in the Philippines must hold a degree in teacher education. Teachers in public and private elementary schools must have at least a bachelor s degree in elementary education. High school teachers are expected to have a bachelor s degree in secondary education with specialization (a major and a minor) in high school subjects. Both degrees are awarded upon successful completion of approved teacher education courses in recognized institutions. Teaching in colleges or professional degree programs at the tertiary level requires at least a master s degree in a particular area of specialization. A doctorate is required of those who teach courses in graduate programs. All teachers complete a four-year degree program. The usual programs are the Bachelor of Secondary Education and Bachelor of Elementary Education. Specialist programs are also available in agriculture, business, industrial and physical education. Courses include a core of general education, at least one year of professional education and studies in the major teaching area. Curricula for each program are approved by the Commission on Higher Education and institutions have flexibility to vary these models. Even though the Philippine government has initiated several programs and projects for the use of ICT in education, real implementation in day-to-day learning is still limited. Teachers fear of technology still hinders the optimal use of ICT-related skills in their teaching activities. Other constraints include the traditional mindset of the school principals, inadequacy of ICT facilities, the lack of adequate maintenance of the available/existing ICT resources, dependence for financial investment on the central government and dependence on ICT service providers for software/courseware. Despite various training programs having been provided to teachers, there is still a need to embark on a comprehensive and sustained in-service training for teachers. Likewise, a systematic development program for education managers needs also to be implemented to change the mindset of principals so they appreciate the value of ICT in education. Another constraint that has had a significant impact on the use of ICT in classrooms is the availability of courseware. Applications and courseware currently available are predominantly productivity tools provided by ICT service providers. Schools, therefore, are limited to teaching the tools rather than using the tools to teach and learn. Without a variety of subject-specific applications, the curricular usefulness of the technology will not be fully realized. It is therefore necessary to develop a system to produce ICT-based education, including the development of ICT-based materials in teacher training. 184
213 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Matrix continued... Review of teachers qualifications and ranking classifications and institutionalization of rewards system for exemplary performance in teaching, research and extension services Adoption of a competitive salary scale for teachers in public education institutions including SUCs based on performance to attract and keep the best educators Teachers belong to the government service and they are governed by civil service laws, rules and regulations. Teachers can only join the service if they meet the prescribed qualifications, such as: appropriate civil service eligibility, bachelor s degree in education or its equivalent, master s degree and doctorate degree, good moral standing, etc. Training activities at the national, regional, district and school levels are conducted by the DepEd, teacher education institutions, other government and non-government agencies, and international agencies as part of staff development programs and to meet in-service training needs of teachers. The Department through linkages with other agencies and associations, initiates, plans and implements in-service training programs. Such programs take the form of conventions, conferences, short-term courses, summer institutes, workshops and seminars. These activities are designed for teachers, supervisors and administrators of various levels. The Magna Carta for Public School Teachers (Republic Act No. 4670) enacted in 1966 states in Section 15 that teachers salaries (a) shall compare favorably with those paid in other occupations requiring equivalent or similar qualifications, training and abilities; (b) shall be such as to ensure teachers a reasonable standard of life for themselves and their families; (c) shall be properly graded so as to recognize the fact that certain positions require higher qualifications and greater responsibility than others, provided that the general salary scale be such that the relation between the lowest and highest salary paid will be of reasonable order. In the case of the private school teachers, the law also provides that the remuneration paid to them shall, as a general rule, be comparable to current salary rates for corresponding government positions. Despite the increase in teachers salary, still the average net teachers salary at present is inadequate as source of livelihood. The Magna Carta similarly states that any teacher engaged in actual classroom teaching shall be required to render not more than six hours of actual classroom teaching a day, preparation and correction of exercises and other work incidental to his/ her normal teaching duties. Secondary teachers shall be assigned to no more than six daily forty-minute periods of instruction. For college, the normal teaching load of a full-time instructor shall be eighteen hours a week. The teaching load of part-time instructors who are full-time employees outside of teaching shall not exceed twelve hours per week. In line with the provisions of Republic Act No (Philippine Teachers Professionalization Act of 1994), a career progression scheme for teachers, administrators and specialists will be developed and tied up with the Continuing Professional Education under the Board for Professional Teachers. Performance evaluation will likewise be undertaken on a regular basis to focus on certain accountability targets to measure performance. Merit-based incentives and rewards will be an integral part of the merit evaluation scheme. 185
214 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Learning from other experience or models Recognition of the need for improvement of professional development in education is a concern of government across continent. In recent years, the field of education has increasingly focused on this task, and efforts are underway to develop high quality and effective professional development that will help teachers improve student achievement. In light of evidence demonstrating that better teachers produce better student outcomes, improving the preparation and in-service training of teachers can provide a key to strengthening the public education system. During the workshop, we will be looking at different models/programs or scheme in improving or upgrading teacher competencies and faculty development and at the end draft or propose one that is of international standards vis-à-vis the attainment of quality education. By learning about preparation and in-service professional development in other countries per discipline, it is possible to gain insights that could prove relevant in efforts to improve pre-service preparation and in-service training in education. This is considering that teacher & faculty development all over the world faces a number of similar issues and challenges. Therefore, examining how other country s educational stakeholders/ practitioners address similar challenges in education will in turn give us a range of options and approaches to consider for improving the preparation and training of our teachers and faculty with the end view that our proposals will greatly contribute to efforts to improve the overall quality of the education workforce and help all children in public and private education succeed. Reference Model No. 1: TEACHER COMPETENCIES DEVELOPMENT MATRIX* Pre-service Staff Preparation and Development State Board policies regarding pre-service preparation are not in conflict with other policies governing teacher preparation, such as those enacted by the Board of Higher Education, NCATE and the state legislature; State Board policies promote the recruitment of diverse candidates into teacher preparation; State Board policies support teacher development paths that support the realization of the vision Pre-service programs include early and sustained clinical experiences with students of a variety of needs/backgrounds; Pre-service programs provide a phased-in induction period in collaboration with local districts; Pre-service programs provide opportunities to develop specific proficiencies, rather than screen out potentially good teachers based on past educational deficiencies; Consortia of teacher training institutions and local districts develop plans to expose students at an early age to the possibility of higher education and teaching as a career. In-service Staff Preparation and Development State policies for teacher development support the notion that teacher development is a lifelong process; State policies for teacher development encourage teacher development decisions to be made as close to the classroom as possible; State policies for teacher development are rooted in student goals and objectives and coordinated with policies for teacher assessment, licensure and pre-service education. School development teacher support teams to provide assistance to staff on an individual basis; State-supported staff development programs recognize the context-specific nature of teaching and encourage individual and school-wide development plans; State recognizes a variety of activities as qualifying for professional development. 186
215 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Matrix continued... Pre-service teacher development is geared toward achievement of teacher standards; Pre-service teachers jointly plan and conduct instructional programs with in-service staff; Candidates can enter pre-service at various points in their education/career; their prior experience are taken into consideration when designing a program; Pre-service training provides a foundational knowledge to candidates, provides the candidate an opportunity to apply that knowledge in a clinical setting, and then reflect on the experiences with input from peers and professionals; Teacher development is rooted in teacher standards; Teacher development reflects research on best practices; Individual professional development activities are developed with the input of colleagues and building administrators to ensure coordination with school, district and state goals; Staff development activities recognize that significant change takes place over time and requires time. Pre-service teacher assessment supports positive practices; Candidates are evaluated through a variety of methods throughout their preparation; Pre-service assessments provide candidates an opportunity to evaluate their own development, and if they choose, leave teacher training programs early in their career; Pre-service teacher assessments provide data to the teacher education program and state on program effectiveness; Data from pre-service assessments are used in making licensure decisions. State has policies and procedures in place for revoking the approval of a teacher preparation program based on the poor performance of its graduates; State has specific guidelines for teacher licensure based on attainment of state-established outcomes. State legislature provides specific funding to teacher educators to support their role in phased-in induction programs; State Board of Education, with the state legislators, provides scholarships and loan forgiveness programs for diverse and non-traditional students to enter and complete teacher development programs. Teacher assessment for licensure and assessment for employment purposes are kept as separate functions; Teacher assessment for development purposes is performed primarily by fellow teachers who know the context in which the teacher operates; Teacher assessment should include multiple lines of evidence and encourage teacher reflection assessments should include work products as well as observations. State education agency monitors selected individual and district professional development plans to ensure integrity of the process; State education agency has policy and procedures in place to revoke a license when teacher has not met standards for In-service professional development for continuing licensure. State Board with state legislature provide discretionary monies to districts that have developed comprehensive professional development plans; State department provides waivers and other authorization as needed to allow local districts to combine teacher development monies across categorical programs to support district developed professional development plans. 187
216 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Source citation: Adapted from the paper on Issues in Brief: State Reforms in Teacher Preparation, Licensure, and Professional Development (1996) by Virginia Roach, Ed.D.; Jon Snyder, Ed.D; and Joan Seamon. NASBE (National Association of State Boards of Education., 277 S. Washington St., Suite 100, Alexandria, VA Reference Model No. 2: Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Issues and Legislative Options in the United States: Recommendations by the Scientific Community The recommendations to improve federal STEM policy concern every aspect of the educational pipeline. All of the recent reports issuing STEM education policy recommendations focus on five areas: improving elementary and secondary preparation in math and science, recruiting new elementary and secondary math and science teachers, retooling current math and science teachers, increasing the number of undergraduate STEM degrees awarded, and supporting graduate and early-career research. As mentioned at the outset of this report, one report that has been of particular influence in the STEM debate is from the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) Rising Above the Gathering Storm. This influence is perhaps due to the clear targets and concrete programs laid out in the report. The NAS report s five recommendations to improve STEM education follow. quadruple middle- and high-school math and science course-taking by 2010, recruit 10,000 new math and science teachers per year, strengthen the skills of 250,000 current math and science teachers, increase the number of STEM baccalaureate degrees awarded, and support graduate and early-career research in STEM fields. To enlarge the pipeline of future STEM degree recipients, NAS sets a goal of quadrupling the number of middle and high school students taking Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) math or science courses, from the current 1.1 million to 4.5 million by NAS further sets a goal of increasing the number of students who pass either the AP or IB tests to 700,000 by To enlarge the pipeline, NAS also supports the expansion of programs such as statewide specialty high schools for STEM immersion and inquiry-based learning through laboratory experience, summer internships, and other research opportunities. To recruit 10,000 new STEM teachers, NAS advocates the creation of a competitive grant program to award merit-based scholarships to obtain a four-year STEM degree in conjunction with certification as a K-12 mathematics or science teacher. These $10,000 to $20,000 awards could be used only for educational expenses and would require a five-year service commitment. An additional $10,000 annual bonus would be awarded to participating teachers in underserved schools in inner cities and rural areas. In further support of this scholarship program, NAS recommends that five-year, $1 million matching grants be awarded to postsecondary institutions to encourage the creation of programs that integrate the obtainment of a STEM bachelor s degree with teacher certification. NAS proposes four approaches to achieving the goal of strengthening the skills of 250,000 current STEM teachers. First, NAS proposes that matching grants be awarded to support the establishment of state and regional summer institutes for STEM teachers modeled after the Merck Institute for Science Education. Second, NAS proposes that additional grants go to postsecondary institutions that support STEM master s degree programs for current STEM teachers (with or without STEM bachelor s degrees) modeled after the University of Pennsylvania Science Teachers Institute. Third, NAS proposes that programs be created to train current teachers to provide AP, IB, and pre-ap or pre-ib instruction modeled after the Advanced Placement Initiative and the Laying the Foundation programs. Fourth, NAS proposes the creation of a national panel to collect, evaluate, and develop rigorous K-12 STEM curricula modeled after Project Lead the Way. To increase STEM bachelor s degree attainment, NAS proposes providing 25,000 new scholarships each year. These Undergraduate Scholar Awards in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (USA-STEM) would be distributed to each state in proportion with its population, and awarded to students based on competitive national exams. The scholarships could only go to U.S. citizens, and could only be used for the payment of tuition and fees in pursuit of a STEM degree at a U.S. postsecondary 188
217 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education institution. To increase graduate study in areas of national need, including STEM, NAS proposes the creation of 5,000 new fellowships each year to U.S. citizens pursuing doctoral ndegrees. The fellowships would be administered by the National Science Foundation, which would also draw on the advice of several federal agencies in determining the areas of need. An annual stipend of $30,000 would be accompanied by an additional $20,000 annually to cover the cost of tuition and fees. These fellowships would also be portable, so that students could choose to study at a particular institution without the influence of faculty research grants. Source citation: CRS Report for Congress, Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Issues and Legislative Options, May 22, 2006 by: Jeffrey J. Kuenzi, Analyst in Social Legislation Domestic Social Policy Division; Christine M. Matthews, Specialist in Science and Technology Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division; and Bonnie F. Mangan, Information Research Specialist Domestic Social Policy Division Reference No. 3: Table on Policies Addressing Teachers Needs and Concerns in Relation to Work in Peripheral Areas Teacher needs/ Policy area Economic considerations Organizational support Professional development Social Considerations Teacher recruitment Put basic teacher salaries in periphery at parity with urban areas. Provide salary differentials and/or hardship pay for teaching in difficult areas. Provide incentives to high-ability local youth to become teachers in their own communities Development of communityschool councils for local recruitment of teacher candidates. Provide subsidized pre-service teacher education for local teachereducation recruits (scholarships, special tutoring, etc). Develop programs for school-based education/ certification of locally recruited teachers. Develop programs to increase teachers social status and recognition. Recruit local students who are already familiar with language and culture. 189
218 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Matrix continued... Teacher education Subsidize pre-service teacher education for recruits from peripheral areas. Subsidize teacher enrollment in courses for earning/ upgrading credentials. Associate teacher education with credentials, pay raises, promotion, and job security. Subsidize costs of in-service teacher education. Empower and train school principals as instructional leaders/ supervisors. Enroll teachers as a group in distance education programs so they can support one another. Make sure that pre-service teacher education covers problems of teaching in peripheral areas; relevant language instruction; lessons on schoolcommunity relations. Hold some student teaching activities in peripheral schools or in conditions simulating those in schools Use distance/ extension education programs so that teachers can upgrade credentials without too much disruption to family life. Teacher deployment Offer extra credit toward promotion for teaching in peripheral areas. Use schoolcommunity councils to select teacher candidates; could also have monitoring, follow-up, and orienting roles for new teachers. Create organizational mechanisms to ensure that teachers recruited and trained for work in the periphery are indeed placed there. Provide special preparation for teaching in the periphery prior to teachers taking up assignments (including training in multi-grade teaching and working under difficult conditions). Develop means of overcoming the image of social isolation. Develop strategies to support deployment of husband/wife teams. Offer subsidized housing as part of teaching contract. Cover moving costs to remote locations. 190
219 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Matrix continued... Teacher Retention Payment of overtime for extra work/ preparation. Improved management of automatic promotion systems (eliminate paperwork bottlenecks). Community contributions toward teacher welfare/ earnings. Organize school clusters and/or working groups for peer support and group problem solving. Empower teachers as co-developers of school curriculum and in-service education programs. Solicit community for teacher aids and guest instructors. Promote special recognition of teachers by community. Use decentralized systems of resource (e.g., textbooks) provision and distribution. Provide access to teacher education/ teacher upgrading courses (through distance or extension education). Make in-service teacher education relevant to teacher needs in the periphery. Involve teachers/ teacher groups in the planning and implementation of own in-service education. Maintain housing subsidies. Cover costs of occasional home visits for those not originating in school vicinity. Provide assistance for health care and education of family members. Source citation: Education in Developing Asia: Policies and Strategies for Improving Education Quality strategy for improving education quality (Capper 1994; Lissitz Strategies amd policies for initiating and sustaining quality improve   Teachers are essential. Anyone who has ever sat in a classroom can attest to this truth. But increasingly, the national spotlight is on the quality of their teaching and how highly-qualified teachers can improve student achievement. The reasons are clear. Research confirms that teacher quality is the most critical factor in improving student performance. And the federal No Child Left Behind Act requires schools, districts, and states to recruit and retain highly qualified teachers and to show annual progress toward the goal of 100 percent student proficiency in reading and mathematics by This heightened attention to teacher quality and pressure to improve achievement leaves educators facing a myriad of challenges with little data to guide them in achieving these goals. But many stakeholders concede that traditional teacher preparation and in-service training have failed to produce the level of quality demanded by the new educational environment. Clearly, educators face some daunting challenges. But this analysis recognizes that the education field is not alone in its quest for quality and that examining how other fields prepare and train professionals can provide ideas and approaches for education to consider adapting in its own efforts. This analysis compares professional development both pre-service preparation and in-service training in education to six other professions: law, accounting, architecture, nursing, firefighting, and law enforcement. This comparison illuminates similarities and differences in the approaches taken to preparation and in-service training to inform the debate over how to improve teacher quality and also highlights important areas for further study and possible policy development. The analysis examines 191
220 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy these critical elements of professional development: Approval of Preparation Programs: Among the examined professions that require state approval of preparation programs, each enjoys greater consistency than education in standards across states. While the education field remains ambivalent about national standards for accreditation and state approval, consistent standards enable preparation programs to better compare their work to that of their peers and to measure progress toward established goals. Clinical training: On the job training is required before licensing in education, architecture, and nursing. It is not required but is almost universal in law and accounting. As student teachers often give their experience a failing grade, calling it limited, inconsistent, and disconnected from coursework, studying the more intensive and highly-structured programs used by nursing and architecture can inform efforts to make the student teaching experience more valuable. National Entry Exam: While most of the six fields require practitioners to achieve a passing score on a national exam before practicing, the education field has long resisted a national teacher assessment and continues to rely on varied state standards for licensure. The education field continues to grapple with a lack of consensus over the characteristics of an effective teacher and continues to rely on varied state standards for licensure, which impacts efforts to ensure that all teachers meet an established level of competency. Practice Prior to Licensure: Education stands alone in allowing professionals to practice independently before they are licensed and to circumvent traditional preparation and licensure through alternative certification programs. While these practices were designed to help districts address teacher shortages and attract new teachers to the field, recognizing both that education is an outlier in this area and the inherent trade-offs involved could advance discussions of how to improve teacher quality across the system. Standards for In-Service Training: Education also is alone among the comparison fields in its lack of universally accepted standards for required in-service training and identification of a single entity to enforce those standards. While there is a growing consensus regarding characteristics of high-quality professional development, there is still a widespread need for standards that would enable educators to evaluate providers and offerings. Induction Programs: Novice firefighters, police, and nurses complete formal orientation or induction programs to prepare them for the demanding situations they will face. Despite disproportionate assignments to low performing schools in low-income areas, new teachers do not have consistent access to formal and focused induction programs. Since research shows that quality induction programs can prepare teachers and reduce turnover, examining universally required programs in other fields could provide valuable models. Peer Support and Learning: The fields of law, accounting, and architecture consider networking and professional associations critical tools for business and professional development. Police and firefighters place a premium on peer support and team- building. While, historically, they have been provided little time to learn from one another, educators increasingly are exploring ways to provide and expand opportunities for collaboration, common planning time, peer learning, and teamwork. Managers: Education stands alone among these fields in requiring its managers principals and superintendents to obtain separate licensure before assuming a management role. The fields of education, law enforcement, and firefighting require managers to complete in-service training, although typically firefighting and law enforcement programs are more formal and specialized. In light of these comparisons, further examination of both the value of requiring separate licensure and the potential of in-service training to address the challenges inherent in management could advance the many discussions on how to improve educational leadership. Financing: The fields of education, nursing, law, accounting, and architecture all require candidates to finance their own preparation. Educators and nurses must also finance their own clinical experiences, while accountants, architects, and lawyers typically complete paid internships. Police and firefighters, who, like public school teachers, are employed by the service public sector, receive public funding for pre-service preparation. Evaluating this type of public investment, including the level and structure of existing grant and loan programs for teachers who commit to working in high poverty areas, may provide insight into how significantly reducing financial burdens could attract entrants to the field and to hard to staff schools. Financial Incentives: Salaries for teachers, firefighting, and police professionals are tied to education and experience. But architects, accountants, and lawyers receive financial rewards in exchange for higher levels of skill and performance. Districts often reward educators graduate courses whether or not they are related to their classroom needs, resulting in a weak link between expenditures and desired 192
221 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education results. In an effort to improve their return on this investment, some districts and states are exploring new ways to reward teachers based on their performance. Assessing the costs and benefits of varying models of financial incentives could help the education field target its resources more effectively. Faced with great pressure to improve student achievement, districts and policymakers demand evidence that investments in professional development will pay off in better teachers and student performance. No field in this study systematically assesses the effect of its training programs on professional performance. The higher standard to which the education field is being held has prompted much of the progress and evolution outlined above, but innovation is required. Information about how other fields prepare and train professionals can help advance efforts to tap the potential of professional development to improve teacher quality and strengthen the education system. Source citation: Katherine S. Neville, Rachel H. Sherman, and Carol E. Cohen, This publication would not have been possible without generous support from the Ford Foundation EXPECTED WORKSHOP OUTPUT The Workshop participants may add to the following suggested outputs: 1. A Plan of Action outlining what needs to be done or next step: i.e., proposed scheme for synchronizing or harmonizing of In-Service and Pre-Service curriculum: content, methodologies, etc that can be adopted by all basic education and tertiary education (public and private); 2. Draft of legislations/executive orders or memoranda for issuance by respective/concerned agencies; 3. Draft or formulate memorandum of agreement/understanding (MOA/MOU) between and among Education Stakeholders: Educational Institutions (all levels); Government (local, regional and national); Business & Industry; Community/ Parents/Teachers/Educators; other potential funding institutions (local and foreign); 4. Others instruments/options that will ensure sustained implementation and fund support for programs relevant to improving Teachers Competencies & Faculty Development; 5. A proposal to create a common Monitoring and Data base for Teachers Competencies and Faculty Development for all education sectors; LIST OF REFERENCES Profile of the First Biennial National Congress on Education, January 31 to February 1, 2008). Philippine Agenda for Educational Reform: The PCER Report, April 10, 2000 Medium Term Development Plan of Higher Education, TEACHER COMPETENCIES DEVELOPMENT MATRIX. *Adapted from the paper on Issues in Brief: State Reforms in Teacher Preparation, Licensure, and Professional Development (1996) by Virginia Roach, Ed.D.; Jon Snyder, Ed.D; and Joan Seamon. NASBE (National Association of State Boards of Education., 277 S. Washington St., Suite 100, Alexandria, VA Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Issues and Legislative Options in the United States: Recommendations by the Scientific Community. CRS Report for Congress, Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Issues and Legislative Options, May 22, 2006 by: Jeffrey J. Kuenzi, Analyst in Social Legislation Domestic Social Policy Division; Christine M. Matthews, Specialist in Science and Technology Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division; and Bonnie F. Mangan, Information Research Specialist Domestic Social Policy Division Policies Addressing Teachers Needs and Concerns in Relation to Work in Peripheral Areas. Education in Developing Asia: Policies and Strategies for Improving Education Quality strategy for improving education quality (Capper 1994; Lissitz Strategies amd policies for initiating and sustaining quality improve   Education_NatlDev_Asia/Quality/polic.pdf 193
222 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Preparing and Training Professionals Comparing Education to Six Other Fields. Katherine S. Neville, Rachel H. Sherman, and Carol E. Cohen, Funded by Ford Foundation Capacity-Building Needs Assessment of the Department of Education in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao. Project & prepared by Creative Associates International, Inc.-Education Quality and Access for Learning and Livelihood Skills, (CAII-EQuALLS-USAID), 2006 Appendix 3-C: Workshop 3 Tighter Coordination between the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and the Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA) Republic Act 7722, the law which created CHED, provides that CHED shall have jurisdiction over public and private institutions of higher education as well as degree-granting programs in all post-secondary educational institutions, public and private. Republic Act 7796, the law which created TESDA, defines technical education as the education process designed at post-secondary and lower tertiary levels, officially recognized as non-degree programs aimed at preparing technicians, para-professionals and other categories of middle-level workers. Educational institutions at the tertiary level are required to secure prior authority from CHED or TESDA, depending on the nature of the program that is intended to be offered degree programs are applied with CHED and non-degree programs for technicians, para-professionals and other middle-level workers are applied with TESDA. Executive Order No. 358, issued by the President in September 2004, intends to institutionalize a ladderized interface between technical-vocational education and training (TVET) and higher education (HE). In the implementation of EO 358, a higher education institution intending to ladderize its degree programs shall restructure the curriculum such that vocational qualifications approved and promulgated by TESDA are integrated to the lower years of the degree program. In case, a student fails to complete the entire degree program and drops out of school, the student who completes the vocational components of the program in the lower years may still earn a certificate of competency from TESDA which will enhance his or her employability in semi-skilled or skilled jobs. The issue in the implementation of EO 358 lies in the requirement that higher education institutions intending to ladderize their degree programs were still required to secure a permit from CHED and a registration certificate from TESDA before the ladderized program can be offered to the public. The above issue has been adequately addressed by the recent issuance of Executive Order 694 which provides that higher education institutions opting to ladderize their educational programs can do so without the need for issuance of a permit from the CHED or TESDA. This provision of EO 694 applies to programs that have been previously granted government recognition by CHED, programs for which model curriculum have been issued by CHED and TESDA. The concerned higher education institution shall submit a copy of the ladderized curriculum to CHED and TESDA. Under Section 3 of Executive Order No. 358, the Professional Regulation Commission, among other agencies, is mandated to provide the necessary support in the operationalization of a unified national qualifications framework upon which ladderized education programs are based. The Professional Regulation Commission should therefore recognize ladderized education programs and allow those who complete such programs to undergo the relevant licensure examinations. Under Executive Order No. 330, the Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP), educational institutions have the final prerogative to 194
223 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education recognize and give credits to subjects that have been taken under a technical-vocational program, when a student transfers from such program to a higher education degree program. Appendix 3-D: Workshop 4-A(1) Tighten Linkages between Higher Education and Industry I. Workshop Objectives The competitiveness of the Philippines in the global market had been the focus of several local conferences, research and studies by both the government and the private sectors in the past years. The results point out the following common areas for improvement, among others: Matching of job and skills for industries to generate greater employment Creating a Science and Technology culture to ensure innovation, productivity and sustainable growth Quality of education, educators and students Responsiveness of Education to the Global Need for Human Talents This background paper summarizes various research findings that workshop participants can use for their own reference. Aside from this background paper, separate reports are also included in the conference kit for Workshop 4. These include: Responding to the Global Demand for Filipino Talent (Presented by Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J., Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Education, last December 11, 2007) A discussion paper from the Business Processing Association of the Philippines (To be presented by Mr. Oscar Sañez, CEO, BPA/P) The Philippine Electronics Industry (To be presented by Mr. Ernie Santiago, President, SEIPI) Industry-Academe Bridging Program Initiatives (To be presented by Ms. Ma. Teresita P. Medado, Managing Director, The APC Center, Asia Pacific College) All of the above reports and research papers seek to address our Workshop 4 Goal: To Tighten Linkages between Higher Education and Industry. Discussions shall revolve around the following areas: Address mismatch of industry demand and supply of graduates Generate commitment of government and industry/business leaders for the appropriate development of talents for greater employability Internationalize education to meet global standards II. Various Researches and Studies On Competencies and Job Skills Mismatch The World Economic Forum recently released the 2007 Global Competencies Report wherein the Philippines ranked 71 st out of 131 countries in terms of overall competitiveness. Our country ranked lower than Vietnam (68 th ), Indonesia (54 th ), Thailand (28 th ), Malaysia (21 st ), India (48 th ) and even Sri Lanka (70 th ). Singapore and Japan made it into the top 10 slots occupying the 7 th and 8 th slots, respectively. South Korea was 11 th while Hong Kong was 12 th in the rankings and China ranked 34 th. 195
224 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The report, which is published yearly, is considered the most reliable index of global economic development race. The index covers 11 factors, called pillars, which include a wide range of components: from macroeconomic and policy stability, primary education, higher education and training to labor market efficiency. Various studies, ranging from that of Philippine Commission to Survey Philippine Education (PCSPE), the EDCOM Report and PCER identified the problem in job and skills mismatch as early as 1970, 1994 and Many believe that the imbalance will become even more serious because the pace of change in the labor market is accelerating and because the workplace is increasingly becoming a high-tech, service-oriented arena organized to involve greater employee participation in decision making. On the Labor Force and Employment Rates Data from the National Statistics Office (NSO) show that the employment rate in October 2007 was registered at 93.7 percent, higher than last year's rate of 92.7 percent. Results from the October 2007 Labor Force Survey (LFS) Philippines October / October 2006 Total 15 years old and over (in '000) 56,864 55,988 Labor Force Participation Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Unemployment Rate (%) Underemployment Rate (%) Notes: 1 / E s t i m a t e s f o r O c t o b e r a r e p r e l i m i n a r y a n d m a y c h a n g e. 2/ Population 15 years and over is from the 2000 population projections The report also showed that across regions, employment rate was highest in Cagayan Valley (97.7%). Other regions with relatively high employment rate were: Zamboanga Peninsula (97.1%), Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (97.0%), Cordillera Administrative Region (96.9%), Eastern Visayas (96.8%) and MIMAROPA (96.3%). The National Capital Region (NCR) had the lowest at 89.4 percent. There were 35.9 million persons in the labor force in October 2007 out of the estimated 56.9 million population 15 years old and over. This translates to a labor force participation rate of 63.2 percent, lower than last year's figure of 64.0 percent. Of the estimated 35.9 million persons in the labor force, 93.7 percent or nine out of ten persons were employed. Almost half or 48.8 percent were in the services sector, almost the same percentage was recorded in October 2006 at 48.6 percent. More than one third (36.1%) of the labor force were in the agriculture sector and 15.1% were in the industry sector. The laborers and unskilled workers constituted the largest occupation group with 32.0 percent of the total employed population. Farmers, forestry workers and fishermen registered the next largest group of workers, comprising 18.7 percent of the total employed persons. The proportion of males to total unemployed (63.5%) in October 2007 is greater than that of females (36.5%). Unemployed persons who had attained high school level comprised 46.2 percent of the total unemployed, of which 33.2 percent were graduates. About 39.5 percent of the total unemployed had reached college level, and 13.7 percent attained elementary level. 196
225 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education On Science and Technology Related Employment Opportunities In a recently held Jaime V. Ongpin Lecture, Senator Edgardo J. Angara pointed out that innovation is key to a country s economic growth especially in those countries that give a high premium to science and technology. Examples of countries that have nurtured a math and science culture are China, Korea and India, among others. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), China has mobilized resources for R&D at an unprecedented scale and speed, and has translated this to the socio-economic progress that China is experiencing for the last ten years. China s phenomenal success was due to its productivity improvements and enhancements in its education system that raised the skills level of its labor force. Like South Korea, China first relied on importing foreign technology, adapted them to local needs and then later on developed its own indigenous innovation. Most, if not all, studies made on Philippine education generally conclude that the country s education system has fundamental resource gaps which have led to the lower-than-desirable levels of science and technology graduates that the country has. Statistics show that of the 430,102 college graduates last year, engineers and technology-related graduates constituted only about 13% and IT 9.5%. Senator Angara cited that Filipino students lack access to basic ICT tools. Students in public elementary schools have difficulty learning the basics of a computer. As of 2006, there are only 464 personal computers catering to more than 13 million elementary students, or a ratio of 1:25,995. Five million high schools students, on the other hand, share among themselves 45,221 computers of a ratio of 1:111. On Employment Opportunities in Fast Growing Industries A 2006 study conducted by the Personnel Management Association of the Philippines (PMAP) that covered fast-growing industries such as pharmaceuticals, banking, consumer goods, hotels and restaurants, semiconductor, information technology, telecommunications, retail, and call centers, indicated employers preferences for prospective employees that have good communications skills, with strong analytical and conceptual skills, and have initiative. These preferred basic competencies demonstrate the soft skills emanating from a good liberal education. While, the country needs more programmers, engineers, architects, physicists, welders and pipe fitters, the workplace these days also demand a good liberal or general education for these people of the hard sciences to make a difference. Business Mirror s JAM Project in October 2007 showed that employers in three major national newspapers and three major online jobsites posted almost 35,000 advertisements for jobs. The top 20 advertisers, from the highest to the lowest, are: cyberservices; construction and engineering; human resource/manpower firms; manufacturing; wholesale and retail; hotels, restaurants and resorts; financial intermediation; transportation, storage and communication; health and social work; education; personal, community and social services; real estate and renting; business consulting; mining and quarrying; advertising and promotions; extraterritorial bodies; and agriculture, fishery and forestry. The skills required were, in descending order: professional and technical, clerical, production and related workers, administrative and managerial, sales workers, and service workers. These numbers indicate that employers require skilled people, who can tinker and produce required products and those who think and produce intangible knowledge-rich products and services. In truth and in fact, while the economy gets increasingly competitive, it will provide the best opportunities for college graduates and professionals. Jobs are not lacking in the Philippines, but there is a dearth of the right and skills-ready people to fill these. On Job Skills Mismatch Measuring Quality and Quantity According to studies done by CHED in 2006, one of the biggest issues on Philippine education and industry is the big mismatch in terms of quality and quantity in the demand-supply situation of Filipino professionals who enter the various local and international industries. An example presented to Her Excellency President Gloria Arroyo during a Cabinet meeting on June 20, 2006 where the Medium-term Plan for the Development of Higher Education was spelled out, is the fact that the country will need and be able to absorb only 40,000 teachers from while the projected number of teacher education graduates is 350,000. This projected oversupply is true with Business Management, Communication Arts and Customs Administration. CHED data show that there are indeed oversubscribed popular courses and undersubscribed but very much needed course offering such as science, mathematics and some other technical courses. 197
226 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Moreover, the qualitative mismatch is evident in the failure of our college graduates to be employed in their area of expertise or specialization. Unfortunately, data reveals some Teacher Education graduates end up as domestic helpers, while Business Management graduates land on clerical jobs or get hired as messengers and some even get employed as chauffer. Worst, is when these college degree holders end up as addition to the number of the unemployed. Data also show that that the National Percentage of Passing in the Licensure Examinations account only to 41+% which covers all board examinations administered by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC). On the Initiatives of the National Competitiveness Council (NCC) The National Competitiveness Council was created by E.O. 571 to among others, develop globally competent workforce capable of providing quality products and services. In terms of addressing the mismatch in skills and labor market demands, the following are being planned: Start-up of a sustainable multi-sectoral mechanism to address the skills and labor market mismatch through the conduct of the People Competitiveness Summit Pre-Conference Workshop. The workshop aims to create a continuing forum for the resolution of issues concerning curriculum review, OJT, facilities improvement, faculty development and placement services. Focus will be on 4 priority sectors (offshoring and outsourcing, semi-conductors and electronics, hospitality, and medical services. In terms of pursuing various OJT and dual-tech projects, consultations have been made with Don Bosco, Punlaan School, Hanns Seidel, Meralco Foundation, and the ECCP with a view to establishing tie-up mechanisms. Approximately, 40 thousand graduates are being produced annually by these institutions with almost 100% absorption rate by the partner companies. In terms of certifying achievement of governance targets in priority professions governed by the PRC, MOAs with NCC, ISA, PRC, the professional organizations and the Philippine Association of Professional Regulatory Board Members, Inc, are being drafted pursuant to Executive Order 220 (Adoption of Good Governance for Professions in the Philippines.) Good governance programs are currently being set up for six ISA identified professions (accountancy, dentistry, architecture, professional teachers, medicine and nursing). TESDA Post-Summit Agenda As a result of the above, the following have become TESDA s post-summit action agenda: Standards Development Identification of industry experts and resource persons Development of competency standards and training standards, curriculum, and assessment tools Promulgation of Training Regulations (minimum standards) for adoption by all public and private training providers Program Authorization Registration of all training programs offered by public and private training providers in accordance with minimum standards set forth in the Training Regulations Posting of program registration data base in the TESDA website for information and guidance of the public. Subsidy or Incentive System Provision of scholarship vouchers to all persons who qualify for training in priority occupations through the P 1 billion President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo Training for Work Scholarship Project (PGMA TWSP) Industry associations as outlets for scholarship vouchers such as the BPAP 198
227 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Free skills training opportunities in priority occupations through the PGMA TWSP training vouchers. Competency Assessment and Certification Provision of free competency assessment services to all training graduates through the network of TESDA technology institutions. Successful candidates in the assessment process are issued certificates of competency or national certificates as evidence of competence in the performance of relevant tasks in specific jobs. Job Referral Services Provision of job referral services through the DOLE PhilJob Net, the network of Public Employment Service Offices, or the relevant industry association Other successful candidates are referred to overseas jobs handled by recruitment agencies authorized by the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration. On Action Programs from the DOLE During the 2006 National Manpower Summit organized by the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE), an Action Plan was drawn that will ensure the following: 1) jobs with specific competencies and are in demand at present, in the short-term and the medium term are identified; 2) linkages between schools, training institutions and industry are working; and 3) the types of workers needed by emerging industries in the country and the rest of the world are generated. It also focused on identifying the gaps in critical and emerging skills requirements, which are in-demand both local and overseas, and on generating recommendation on policies and strategies toward narrowing the skills and competency gaps and generating the right workers required by a specific sector. Report on the Summit mentioned that consultations were held among the nine sectors identified in the MTPDP as key employment generators (KEGs); those which are currently encountering issues such as high turn-over rates, jobs-skills mismatch, unavailable skills; and those where potentials for employment creation is seen to grow based on the similar experience of other countries in the region and the rest of the world. These sectors are: Agribusiness, (aquaculture, crop production, livestock/poultry, agri-product processing) Cyberservices (animation, back office processing, customer contact, medical transcription, software development) Hotel and Restaurants or Hospitality (front office management, food and beverage, housekeeping services) Medical Tourism (surgeons, ophthalmologists, dentists, trained nurses, spa therapist, spa managers, massage therapist) Health Services (day care workers, midwife, doctors, dentists, nurses, pharmacists, health aides, nursing aides) Mining (geologists, mining engineers, geodetic engineers, metallurgical engineers, skilled workers) Aviation (pilots, mechanics, ground equipment operators, air traffic controllers, aviation instructors) However, efforts and programs must be sustained to strengthen market-oriented and in-demand skills, and in general to improve the matching of skills and jobs, especially among the younger bracket of workers. It is particularly noted that amid the marked improvement in employment levels, the youth in the age bracket of 15 to 24 years still accounted for 48.8 percent of the unemployed. Moreover, within the same age brackets, about 34 percent are those who have reached college levels while about 42 percent have high school education. The educated yet unemployed youth presents a bigger challenge to policy makers and industry stakeholders. It is also a concern particularly because the country has a rather young population and unemployment among the youth has both social and economic repercussions. 199
228 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy In July 2007, the DOLE welcomed the reported decision of the European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines (ECCP) to help address the perennial problem on job and skills mismatch and the efforts of industry and stakeholders to find needed skills. On CHED Initiatives CHED intends to realign college education with the needs of the economy to ensure the employability of graduates. Though CHED had been implementing various projects and programs in line with aim of addressing the job-skills mismatch, Acting CHED Chairman Romulo L. Neri, in an interview with the Philexport News and Features, that such measures hopes to reduce the number of unemployed persons in the country. Neri pointed out that the government has to talk to business, get business together with the academic community to make sure that courses are aligned to what the business needs and what the academic community produces in terms of graduates. Perhaps creating a better teaching curriculum for colleges and universities to ensure that they produce quality graduates may contribute to alleviating the situation. He also emphasized the need to hasten the implementation and perhaps, promote the ladderized education program (LEP) among Filipinos as option to acquiring college education. The LEP is a combination of technical / vocational courses that are creditable for a collegiate degree. CHED had also earlier exerted efforts in re-directing course preferences in its aim to address the quantitative mismatch. The following programs were designed for graduating high school students as well as first and second year college students: 1. Implementation of a National Career Streaming and Qualifying Examination. CHED administered an aptitude test to guide high school graduating students on what course they may take based on the result of the said exam. From the result, a student may be given three choices of courses to pursue in higher education. 2. Implementation of an aggressive Career Guidance and Counseling for graduating high school students as well as first and second year college students. Since the first two years of college curriculum are devoted to general education courses, college freshmen and sophomore students may always have the option to change courses. 3. For undersubscribed courses, CHED has devised a program to attract students by: a) providing scholarship and other incentives for students enrolling in undersubscribed but needed courses, and b) providing government subsidy in the procurement of equipment for priority curricular offerings. As for the qualitative mismatch, CHED has taken measures through the following efforts: 1. Improving quality of instruction by: a) providing graduate study scholarships for college faculty in English, Science, Mathematics and other priority courses; b) SUCs offering graduate study scholarship for elementary and high school teachers in English, Science and Mathematics. 2. Offering pre-baccalaureate program to high school graduates who ranked low scores in National Career Streaming and Qualifying Examination. 3. Re-engineering of academic curricula to make these IT-enabled, market-responsive and globally competitive, and offering new emerging courses in Science and Technology, i.e. Nano-technology, biotechnology, bio-diesel and materials science. 4. Strengthening HEI-Industry linkages as well as enhancing connections with foreign universities. On Regional Efforts In Region 2 (Cagayan Valley), consisting of the provinces of Batanes, Cagayan, Isabela, Nueva Viscaya, and Quirino, DOLE reports show that schools and employers, together with stakeholders in the region have mapped out for the first time a joint action plan outlining strategies to be implemented to address the jobs and skills mismatch in the region. The report mentioned that the academe and industry leaders as well as the government and other social partners in the region formulated the region s Human Resource Action Plan aimed at producing workers equipped with the right skills, that would address the jobs and skills mismatch hindering the region s productivity and competitiveness. 200
229 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education On Internationalization of and Borderless Education At the onset of the 21 st century, the terms transnational education, borderless education and cross-border education had emerged in view of the various discourses that had taken place on the internationalization of education. In recognition of the potential opportunities and demands globalization may bring to education, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) had embarked on programs and projects that are bent towards making Philippine education at par with global standards. In 2000, the CHED issued a CHED Memorandum Order (CMO) on the Updated Policies and Guidelines on Open Learning and Distance Education (OLDE). CHED defined OLDE as alternative systems of education that opens opportunities by overcoming barriers that result from geographical isolation, personal or work commitments or conventional course structures which have often prevented people from realizing their educational goals. Open Learning and Distance Education were defined respectively as: Open Learning (OL) is a philosophy of learning that is learner-centered and flexible, enabling learners to learn at the time, place and pace which satisfies their circumstances and requirements. Distance Education (DE) is a mode of educational delivery whereby teacher and learner are separated in time and space and instruction is delivered through specially designed materials and methods and supported by organizational and administrative structures and arrangements. Through this program, CHED Centers of Excellence/Center of Development and/or recognized HEIs with Level III Accreditation of CHED equivalent in the program applied for shall be allowed to offer OL/DE Programs. It was also through CHED s effort that the policies and guidelines for Transnational Education were recognized. CHED s definition of transnational education is as follows, classifying it as a form of Transnational Education: Transnational Education refers to the real or virtual movement of teachers, students, courses of study, and academic programs from one country to another. Through this definition, Distance Education was classified under Transnational Education. 201
230 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 3-E: Workshop 4-A(2) Responding to the Global Demand for Filipino Talent Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J. December 7, 1007 Targets for the Philippine O&O Industry 1. The Business Processing Association of the Philippines is bullish about increasing market share from the current 4-5% to 10% of the global market in This will translate to an increase in outsourcing revenues from US$3.3 billion in 2006 to US$13 billion in 2010, and one million additional recruits, according to Ms. Gigi Virata, Executive Director for Information and Research, BPA/P. These revenue and manpower forecasts were established after consultations with BPA/P members, BOI, CICT. The study was also facilitated by the McKinsey Group. 2. The following demand / supply analysis (figure on next page) focusing on opportunities and strengths shows that the Philippines is in an excellent competitive position in the growing O&O industry. 3. A more detailed look at current and projected employment figures (figure on next page) in the various sectors in the O&O industry shows that the contact centers will continue to dominate the BPO growth. However the growth rates of other sectors, notably the back office, medical transcription, animation and digital content sectors are expected to be phenomenal. Atty. Jamea Garcia provided the following estimates on current and forecasted human resources requirements from the various O&O sectors. Please note that there are other sectors that did not provide forecasted figures. Key Issues The BPA/P study identified key issues that may derail the achievement of 10% market share goal in These are: Suitable and abundant talent 1. Need to recruit over one million new people into the industry to reach 10% market share 2. High percent of top talent in emerging areas outbound to other markets (e.g., nurses, engineering, accountants) 3. Mismatch in location density between providers and labor. Smaller labor pools not tapped Operational Performance 1. Wage pressures emerging, reflecting accelerating growth and lack of transparency on wages 2. Competitiveness relative to established players (e.g., India) and emerging players (e.g., Vietnam) at-risk 3. Wage appear to be growing faster than billing rates, creating imperatives for operational excellence, scale and migration to high value services Quality Infrastructure 1. Availability emerging as major issue NCR rental space only available to reach 68% of revenue target Given market uncertainty, facilities being built only on commitment, slowing time-tomarket 2. Rental rates rising sharply in Makati Central Business District 202
231 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Industry is supply-driven with no visible demand constraints leading to a unique opportunity for Philippines especially especially in customer care focused on N. America and N. Asia Demand: Only 11% of global addressable market currently captured Firms no longer doubt the value of offshoring and outsourcing Offshoring moving away from labor arbitrage to tapping global talent Organizations are looking for new processes and services to offshore (e.g., engineering services, R&D) New source markets are emerging (e.g., North Asia) Philippines in a sweet spot to capture more market share Supply: India already facing tremendous pressure on talent and infrastructure Rising salaries and attrition levels Quality issues in voice services Infrastructure bottlenecks Competitors still way behind India in BPO and IT services China, Vietnam way behind in English skills, South Africa not very cost competitive compared with Asia so focusing on Europe and UK Philippines has a distinct advantage in English and several fast-growth, high skill based slivers (e.g., F&A, animation) 6 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN O&O SECTORS SECTOR 2006 Actual 2010 Projected Growth Rate Contact Center (Voice) 160, , % Back Office 36, , % Medical Transcription 7, ,000 1,642% Legal Transcription 675 2, % Animation 6,500 41, % Software Development 16,000 75, % Engineering Design 4,400 21, % Digital Content 1,000 16,000 1,500% Others 4,000 13, % TOTAL 235, ,
232 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Conducive Business Environment 1. Need to ensure that current incentive regime continues to sustain competitiveness 2. Most locators concentrated in NCR; other cities may not be O&O-ready 3. Under resourced industry association 4. Good investor support in pre-investment phase; potential to improve in execution phase Risk Management 1. Persistent issues around critical risk factors that affect outsourcing decision (e.g., IP protection, data privacy) Addressing the Key Issues The BPA/P developed a Roadmap 2010 to address the key issues. Their interventions focused on four themes: talent management, next wave cities, business environment and BPA/P team This was discussed in detail by Dr. Victor Limlingan in the November 27, 2007 meeting. This paper will focus on the first two interventions since they need extensive support from the education sector. Talent Management There are 5 thematic programs to draw an additional 290 to 560 thousand recruits. The highest yields in terms of preparing the workforce for employment in O&O sectors come from improving awareness of career opportunities in O&O. This program targets a talent pool composed of tertiary degree graduates, drop-outs with minimum 2 years tertiary education and career shifters. 5 thematic programs to draw an additional thousand recruits Thematic program Develop comprehensive assessment and training program Improve awareness of career opportunities in O&O Tap alternative talent pools Affected talent pools Tertiary degree graduates Drop-outs with minimum two years tertiary education Tertiary degree graduates Drop-outs with minimum 2 years tertiary education Career shifters Non-traditional pools* Non-NCR graduates Short-term Long-term ESTIMATES Estimated impact ( ) Thousand FTEs Low-end FTE impact High-end FTE impact Improve ability to fund Focus on responsive curriculum changes Drop-outs with less than 2 years tertiary education High school graduates who do not enroll in college High school graduates Total * Non-traditional pools include college drop-outs with less that two years tertiary education, high school graduates who do not enroll in college, housewives, and retirees ** PPS: Percentage points Source: CHED; MGI; BPAP; NSCB; ADB Statistical Database; interviews; team analysis
233 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Suggested Action Plan: For the universities Colleges and universities to include opportunities in the outsourcing and off-shoring industry as part of their career discussions for juniors and seniors. Establish an O&O desk at their placement offices that will provide information on O&O job content, skills requirements, earning opportunities, and opportunities for career advancement. For BPA/P Provide up-to-date brochures and other information materials to colleges and universities that they can give or discuss with students. Provide training to placement officers in colleges and universities to increase their knowledge on the O&O industry A substantial number of future O&O employees can be sourced from tertiary degree graduates and drop-outs with minimum 2 years tertiary education provided they undergo a comprehensive assessment and training program. Suggested action plan: The sourcing for candidates for employment can be done by the colleges and universities. A preliminary screening based on students grades in English and other relevant metrics already available in school may be done. A referral fee shall be given to the college for every successful candidate placed in position. The schools may opt to provide the training required to make their students more skillful in the competencies required by the O&Os, e.g. for voice-based contact centers, English language proficiency and communication skills. The school gains additional revenue from tuition fee and placement fee, and the students will have a better chance for gainful employment. The assessment and training programs can be standardized for greater quality assurance. Explore incentives for schools, scholarships, study now, pay later plans, and other sources of subsidy for operations and tuition. Explore developing a Kumon -type tutorial course and franchise this to private persons/ companies. The program to tap non-traditional pools can also be a source of talent. Non-traditional pools include college drop-outs with less that two years tertiary education, high school graduates who do not enroll in college, housewives, and retirees. Suggested Action Plan: May be done in partnership with LGU s and can ride with the various initiatives on basic education. Link up with companies placement offices to catch retirees and redeployables. The program to tap non-ncr graduates will push the development of next wave cities. Suggested Action Plan: Work with LGUs to optimize initiatives of both the local government and the BPA/P members. Fine-tune the scorecard being used by BPA/P to reflect the skills level of the city/lgu While there are programs that address high school graduates and those with less than two years education (i.e. responsive curriculum changes), a longer lead time for implementation may be needed; and the benefits may only be realized after a longer period. However, these programs are necessary to improve the country s ability to fund the talent pool and to sustain / improve our competitive advantage in English language proficiency. 205
234 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy New areas within Metro Manila are emerging as attractive O&O locations Current occupancy Thousand sq m Expected incremental available supply Thousand sq m Makati CBD Ortigas CBD Fort Bonifacio Alabang CBD Mandaluyong Manila Expected availability suggests transferring focus of O&O locations within Metro Manila from Makati and Ortigas CBDs to Fort Bonifacio (and Pasay) Availability will also push locators outside Metro Manila into other parts of the country Pasay Quezon city/ Eastwood city Total Metro Manila 780 1,295 Source: Leechiu and Associates 20 There is abundant available talent out the metro cities
235 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Suggested Action Plan: Work with Basic Education for a curriculum design that will provide us with a sustainable supply of human resources for the O&O industry. Work with LGUs for a continuing program on skills required by the O&O industry. LGUs may choose to focus on certain skills and create a market niche. Summer programs for out-of-school youth may be established to ensure continuing learning of English language skills. This may be initiated by the LGUs and/or DSWD. BPA/P had initiated Talent Management Partnership Programs to bridge the requirements of both industry and education. They have piloted a one semester course on Advanced English proficiency in some colleges and universities, e.g. JRU, PWU, UE Emilio Aguinaldo College, and DLSU Dasmarinas. Some of the sponsors are PLDT Ventis, Convergys, Tele Tech, etelecare, and the ICT Group. The schools bear their own costs and continue to carry the salary of the teachers. The classroom size is 25 students per class. This means less profit per class because of the small number of students, compared to the usual 40 to 50 students for other subjects. The training of teachers will also be borne by the companies. The biggest challenge facing this program is how to scale-up its operations. With 25 student per class per semester and the few universities that are running the pilot program, it will take a long time to fill the demand. The BPA/P and the schools need help in crafting additional supplementary programs to fast- track this initiative. Suggested Action Plan: Schools may open short certificate courses, not just to students but to adult learners who want to speak and write better English. A ladderized system may be explored for those who would like to further their English skills, possibly leading to a degree and a diploma. The courses should undergo quality checks. It is best to go for international accreditation, if there are any, to increase the overall competitiveness. Establish a training program and franchise to existing tutorial companies. Next Wave Cities 82% of O&O activities are done in Metro Manila. However, it is desirable to expand the industry outside of Metro Manila to spread the economic benefits across the nation, to mitigate the risk for industry players and their clients and to improve the overall country attractiveness. This also mitigates the increasing wage and real estate costs in Metro Manila; and opens access to untapped talent across the country. BPA/P used a scorecard to determine the attractiveness of alternative locations. Four factors were used to assess the various cities: talent, infrastructure, cost and business environment. Aside from Metro Manila, Cebu City and Davao City, the cities in the following chart were identified as possible expansion site for the O&O businesses. The Next Wave Cities Working Group of the BPA/P is working to promote and accelerate the development of next wave cities. BPA/P hopes to mobilize the various stakeholders to achieve the objectives of the O&O industry. 207
236 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Working group to promote and accelerate development of Next Wave Cities Maintain BPAP Inventory Update scorecard Prepare case studies Perspective on city progress Coordinate data collection on cities Coordinate ICT council meetings Help LGU understand buy factors Communicate location opportunities to industries CICT Push for ICT council creation and activeness Coordinate with other government agencies (e.g., DTI) Industry* Spread O&O activities more evenly Identify ways to manage the ecosystem Provide perspective on needs and location readiness Next Wave Cities Working Group LGU Articulate objectives for the city Push for buy-in of local stakeholders and citizens National government Align investments and regulations together Support other agencies involved in O&O investments * Service providers/investors, real estate developers, telco providers, utility providers, schools and placement agencies Source: Team analysis 24 Appendix 3-F: Workshop 4-A(3) Industry-Academe Bridging Program Initiatives By Ma. Teresita P. Medado Managing Director The APC center Introduction: Achieving Academic Goals through Industry-Academe Partnership The evolution of business and industry and the impact on demands to education is not new to us. And today, we are experiencing yet another resurgence of change, a metamorphosis of new business processes driven by ubiquitous information technology and instant collaboration, and in general, the movement towards O & O as a major player in the economic landscape today. Throughout these developments, it has always been said that the education sector has always tended to be reactive rather than pro-active in the pursuit of relevance and responsiveness of our academic programs to industry demands. However, it is also true that since 1994, various efforts of Industry- Academe linkage were initiated; where some practices maybe regarded as lesson learned and became bases for the emergence of new partnership models. I shall not elaborate much on these contentions but rather, focus this paper on the initiatives and efforts of academia that perhaps may lead us once more towards Industry-Academe partnership innovations that will remain grounded on the very purpose of education. For the purpose of this paper, please allow me to render in a simplified manner the premise and goals of academic institutions. I believe that by reminding ourselves of our goals, we are able to develop and scale our partnership implementation models based on how our own Colleges and Universities craft their roles and commitment to participate in this new wave of business and industry developments. 208
237 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Business and industry environment may have changed quite drastically over the last decades but our educational goals will always remain constant. It is precisely these goals that challenge higher education to innovate, adopt and adapt new content and contemporary methods to meet industry demands. The issue is however, how fast we can do so. Figure 1 below is a general yet simplified manner of presenting the continuum of educational goals. As I present the innovations and initiatives of different higher education institutions over the last decade or so, I am using this continuum as an indicator of the extent to which these initiatives map to the educational goals. Figure 1. Continuum of Educational Goals Continuum of Educational Goals Employment or career opportunities Quality of Graduates Quality of Academic Programs Employability of graduates in terms of numbers employed, and how soon they are employed after graduation, as well as job match Graduates who are ready and able to efficiently and actively participate as members of the new workforce Relevance and adaptability of Academic Programs to demands of the social and business environment of today Industry-Academe Partnership Initiatives In the course of discussing the different Industry-Academe Partnership models, I should like to organize presentation of these models for purposes of clarity, in accordance to the nature and scope of implementation as follows: 1. Industry-Academe Linkage in Technical Vocational Training and Higher Education: the predecessors of Industry-Academe linkages as a backgrounder 2. Comprehensive Industry-Academe Partnership Models in Higher Education: These models are implemented on larger scale involving a cross section of partners and/or implemented in a larger geographical scale. 3. Strategic Industry-Academe Partnership Models in Higher Education: These models tend to be very specific and strategic in terms of goals, objectives and implementation formula. The results are likewise, are industry-specific skill and competency hiring requirement. 4. Institutional Industry-Academe Partnership Models: These are models of Colleges and Universities that were either established for the purpose of Industry partnership or those actively pursuing different models of partnership across the programs and services. Industry-Academe Linkage in Technical Vocational Training and Higher Education To speak of initiatives in Industry-Academic Partnership, it would be prudent to cite models that became predecessors and inspiration to the evolving partnership endeavors over the last decade or so. In the late 80s, the Dual Training Systems as applied in technical-vocational education was initiated at the time when the Philippine economy became dependent on manufacturing and exporting parts of industrial commodities and consumer goods requiring labor intensive processes. First practiced in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Denmark, Netherlands and France, the Philippines adopted the model to enable the development of manpower pool that will service the manufacturing industries, specifically the automotive, electronics, garment, construction, tourism, and standard office / IT applications. In 1994, the success of the model prompted the creation of Republic Act No. 7686, Dual Training Systems Act of Records show that there were Thirty-five (35) technical-vocational education and training (TVET) institutions that participated where in a total of Seventy (70) programs implemented with a total participation of Four hundred Fifty-nine (459) business establishments. To date, the model is still being pursued by our technical-vocational educational institutions. Figure 2 describes the Industry-Academe Implementation model of Dual Tech. The Dual Tech initiative aspired towards the goal of employment and in the process, instructional methods, particularly the apprenticeship method, enabled a matching of skills between students and industry needs. 209
238 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 2. Industry-Academe Implementation Model Dual Tech Dual Tech (as applied in Tech-Voc) Republic Act No. 7686, Dual Training Systems Act of Tec-Voc Educational & Training Institution (TVET) 450 Business Establishment: Automotive, Electronics, Garment, Construction, Tourism, Office / IT Sends Apprentice (70 programs) 40% in-school education 60% in-plant training Graduate Hired as employee Apprenticeship is accepted as a most powerful learning methodology. It goes even beyond opening opportunities for employment towards readiness of graduates to assume roles and responsibilities in the workplace. It is no wonder that this model is still quite pervasive in technical-vocational education and now in higher education. One such higher education institution is De La Salle University College of Engineering. The British System of Polytechnic University examined the program specific to DLSU BS Engineering and Industrial Technicians Programs. Engineering students were required to go through shop-floor practice of one month to one semester. DLSU also initiated the Manufacturing Engineering Program was established with one year of internship, combining Tec-Voc (machine shop) with Engineering, including use of numeric-controlled machines, programming and robotics. Engineering students were required to go through one year internship (4 th year) in a 5-year trimestral program. Figure 3 on the next page illustrates the implementation model. DLSU Implementation Model The program was quite successful but it suffered difficulties owing to quite a number of requirements by TESDA and the training with Industry is rather expensive. Likewise, a general bias against Tec-Voc education compared to degree programs persisted. Going back to our mapping of the educational goals, these two implementation models both aspired for employment in engineering and technical-vocational careers. Indeed, this was a successful model to emulate then, at that time when our economy became dependent on manufacturing and exports. Figure 4 on the next page illustrates the extent of which these models mapped to educational goals. We can therefore rightfully say that the Academe was then already responsive to the call of Industry. 210
239 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Figure 3. Industry-Academe Linkage Industry-Academe Linkage DLSU Engineering DLSU Engineering: Engineering & Tec-Voc Engineering- Manufacturing Industries Sends Interns 5 year trimestral program Of the 5 years, 1 year with Industry Graduate Hired as employee The participation of many Industries and their support to education was quite eminent and thus spelled the success of this partnership models. Comprehensive Industry-Academe Partnership Models in Higher Education More recently, there are Universities that developed models of partnership focused on English Proficiency as the foundational skill requirement of modern industry. The University of the East (UE) College of Arts and Sciences ventured into such partnership upon the prodding of governmental institutions, particularly the Department of Trade and Industry. In July 2003, Gregory Domingo, former DTI Undersecretary and Senator Mar Roxas, then Secretary of DTI, DTI took upon the responsibility of developing the partnership model for enhancing English proficiency of students. They believed that it is largely the responsibility of academia to prepare students and realign English instruction to meet Industry needs. Dean Carmelita Flores, College of Arts and Sciences mobilized faculty members to develop Communication 400, a one semester English proficiency program, the content of which approximated the Call Center English training programs. Modules include among others, critical aspects of grammar structure, speech neutralization and accent reduction; Americana, a module in American Culture; and a module on customer management. Evaluated and approved by DTI, the Program was inaugurated in a conference and job fair in cooperation with DTI-BOI, UE and People Support as Industry partner. The course was first integrated as a 3-unit subject in the GE curriculum and then became elective for 3 rd year and 4 th year. In 2005, the elective was further enhanced with the participation of epldt Ventus; redeveloping the elective as a 6 unit subject (now with Communication 401) incorporating epldt Ventus strategic employment requirements. Figure 5 on the next page illustrates the Industry-Academe Partnership Model pursued by UE. What is interesting to note is that the participation of DTI-BOI enabled the mobilization of other Colleges and Universities to replicate the elective in their curriculum. Through faculty training conducted by UE, they were able to reach out to Colleges in Universities in Pampanga, Tarlac, Palawan; 211
240 Tec-Voc Educational & Training Sends Apprentice 3 day school 2 day company Establishments: automotive, electronics, The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 4. Industry-Academe Educational Goals Mapping: Dual Tech and DLSU Engineering Industry-Academe Partnership Initiatives Continuum of Educational Goals Employment / Career opportunities Quality of Graduates Quality of Academic Programs Dual Tech IAL-DLSU Engineering Graduate Gradu- 5 year trimestral Sends Business Hired as employee Of the 5 years, 1 year with Hired as DLSU Engineering: Engineer- Engineer- ing- Manufacturing Figure 5. Industry-Academe-Government Partnership: University of the East Industry-Academe-Government Partnership: University of the East University of the East Government DTI-BOI Industry People Support epldt Ventus University of the East Electives: Communication 400 Communication 401 Desired: Pool of near hire applicants Replication through Faculty training 212
241 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Sorsogon, Catanduanes, and Baguio. The course materials are well documented and the actual instruction easy to replicate. It is for this reason that many other Colleges and Universities have elected to conduct the courses. Though there are no precise data and information on whether students were actually employed by epldt Ventus, Dean Flores relates that these students stand a good chance of getting employed in different sectors of the Industry. Even a more comprehensive partnership approach is that of the Industry-Academe Linkage Program, a joint initiative of a community of organizations including Business Process Association of the Philippines (BPA/P), Philippine Software Industry (PSIA), the Coordinating Council of Private Education (COCOPEA), and the Philippine Society of Information Technology Educators (PSITE-NCR). The joint project is in response to the Train for Work Scholarship Certificate Program of the Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA). It aims to reduce gaps on the mismatch; produce IT and language proficient graduates that meet industry requirement. The projects / courses developed are the Advanced English Proficiency Training Program (ADEPT) and Career Entry Course for Software Development (CECSD) a course developed by PSIA. The pilot to be launched 2 nd Semester of SY and eventually full-scale launch in June 2008 involving 5 College and University Partners. Figure 6 details the processes for the pilot implementation, at the end of which course replication in the curriculum and hiring is hoped to be accomplished. Should the pilot succeed, participation of a larger group of industry and academe will be pursued. Mapping these comprehensive programs across educational goals, both programs indeed addresses at the moment two of our objectives, quality academic programs quality graduates. Efforts towards curricular innovation, when done on a comprehensive scale will largely benefit a good number of Colleges and Universities. This alone can be a milestone in implementation; propagating changes and improvement in the Figure 6. Industry-Academe Linkage Joint initiative of BPA/P, PSIA, COCOPEA, and the PSITE-NCR Industry-Academe Linkage Program TESDA Industry PSIA, BPA/P COCOPEA PSITE-NCR, Certification & Training Funds Needs Assessment Course development epldt Ventus etelecare Convergys Accenture ICT BPA/P member companies PSIA member companies CECSD ADEPT Pilot Faculty Training Jose Rizal College University of the East Emilio Aguinaldo College Philippine Women s University University of Perpetual Help Philippine Christian University Evaluation & Hiring 213
242 Needs Indus- epldt Ventus etelecare Convergys Accenture G ov er Course development Un iv er University of the East Electives: Replication through Faculty training Desired: Pool CO- CE CS Evaluation Certification & Quality of Academic Programs Indu str TESD Pilot Jose Rizal College University of the East Emilio Aguinaldo College Philippine Women s The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy curriculum may not have immediate results in hiring but most certainly, it will enable the right conditions and environment to develop both competent and qualified faculty members and eventually, the graduates entering the workforce. For instance, Dean Flores believes that the confidence and enhanced proficiency in English gained from taking up the elective would certainly improve marketability of their graduates across disciplines. Based on feedback among graduates and industry and government partners, continuing enhancement of curriculum is desirable. Lessons may be learned form initial implementation that may help solidify and strengthen successive implementation. For instance, initial stages of the pilot implementation of the BPA/P, PSIA, COCOPEA, and the PSITE-NCR already identifies some issues worth mentioning. Out of fifteen (15) faculty members trained in Java, only two faculty members passed the test. Whether this might have something to do with the nature of the training or the mismatch of faculty members, this would be a good input to succeeding implementation. For instance, if passing rate of faculty may fall short, then perhaps we can strengthen faculty development efforts, that which gives more chances for faculty members to meet the industry requirement as well. Strategic Industry-Academe Partnership Models in Higher Education Now on the home front, I can speak about strategic partnership models The APC Center implemented in the last 7 months. These programs were strategic in different fronts: a. Objective is Hiring. Driven not only by our awareness of the industry demand but the urgency of the demand, our projects directly addressed employment, and for that matter, our projects resulted into hiring of qualified and trained graduates. b. Training is industry specific. Training content strategically addresses industry requirement to a specific level of detail. Companies have different requirement at the level of minute skills and competencies. c. Metrics are used for performance assessment. Competency-based formative and summative assessments were made bases for crafting the course content and instructional methods. The specificity of the competencies allowed trainers to engage in goal-based Figure 7. Industry-Academe Educational Goals Mapping: University of the East and Joint initiative of BPA/P, PSIA, COCOPEA, & PSITE-NCR Industry-Academe Partnership Initiatives Continuum of Educational Goals Employment / Career opportunities Quality of Graduates University of the East: Communication 400, 401 Joint initiative of BPA/P, PSIA, COCOPEA, & PSITE-NCR 214
243 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education training, adjusting both content and methodology to meet the criteria set in the metrics whenever required within the training duration. d. Specific to IBM Daksh, Pay when hired policy. IBM Daksh subscribes to the pay when hired strategy. The policy further motivated project implementers to constantly innovate and improve the course delivery to gain high acceptance rate. The APC Center is engaged as a partner of IBM Daksh Business Process Services Philippines, Inc. for training and recruitment of potential Customer Care Specialist. Dubbed the IBM Daksh Gateway Project, applicants who were assessed as near hires are endorsed to the Center for training. Based on a metric of possessed skills in English proficiency and customer relation, near hires are stratified into differentiated training programs varying in both content and duration. It is interesting to note that IBM Daksh issued the Performance Evaluation Grid (PEG), set in a metric format to enable the fine distinction of readiness of near hires both at the onset and culmination of training. After having trained 1,066 near hire over the last 7 months, 780 were hired, a 74% acceptance rate. As the highest performing training partner of IBM Daksh, we attribute our successes to the strategic formulation of training delivery and most of all the dependency on metrics. The same methodology made us succeed in an experimental class for those belonging below near hire or those that did not quite make it to the cut-off point. With a longer duratio9n of 4 weeks, 80% of trainees were immediately hired. Figure 8 is the illustration of the IBM Daksh Gateway Program Process Flow. Following the same partnership model as that of the IBM Daksh Gateway Program, the APC Center had another opportunity to engage in employment generation program, and this time with the support Figure 8. The APC Center IBM Daksh Gateway Program Process Flow The APC Center IBM Daksh Gateway Program 1 st Trial IBM Daksh Near Hire Referrals APC EQ Recruits APC EQ Diagnosis Fail Pass 2 nd Trial IBM Daksh PEG APC EQ Stratified Training Program Placement Fail Pass IBM Daksh Stratified Training IBM Daksh VASS Training IBM Daksh SS5 Training IBM Daksh Prospective Placement (Hiring) 215
244 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy form the Commission on Higher Education. The Post Baccalaureate Bridging Program Cyber Corridor Super Region, is one of the five super regions created and defined through E.O The Cybercorridor is an ICT belt stretching over 600 miles from Baguio City to Zamboanga envisioned to provide a variety of cyber-services at par with global standards. Based on a report of the National Manpower Summit of 2006 and the National Human Resource Conference in 2007, the program goal focused on supporting human resource development needs of the super region, aiming to bridging and matching skills and competencies of new college graduates and the requirements of industry through training. The Program objectives were very specific as well: a. develop design and conduct competency-based training programs responsive to industry requirement; and b. promote complementation and foster synergy among government, academe an industry thereby ensuring the employability of graduates; c. Colleges and Universities to undertake understanding with Industry and to a certain degree assures hiring. d. Colleges Universities to deliver the course supported by CHED funds. Participating Colleges and Universities were The APC Center Asia Pacific College, University of the Cordilleras, Nova Computer College, Cebu Institute of Technology, and the University of the Philippines College of Engineering. The APC Center partnered with 8 companies, all of them BPOs servicing software applications development, banking and finance, merchandising, and accounting and bookkeeping. The courses were tweaked to industry needs to produce the following: a. Cobol Programmers for IBM Solutions Delivery Inc; Safeway Philtech, Inc; and Seven-Seven Global Services Inc. b. AS/400 and RPG Programmers for CAI-STA; Radix System Services Corporation; and Mysis International Banking System. c. Accountants and Bookeepers for Philippine-Services.Org Inc d. Systems developers for Global Ideology Corporation A notable 97.5 % were hired by the companies out of 95 graduates, trainees. Other than the strategic implementation models implemented, one of the more strategic processes employed was engaging the industry partners in pre-qualifying the applicant before endorsing them to training. Having undertaken the pre-qualifying exam, The APC Center was assured of the presence of required competencies on both soft and hard skills possessed by the applicant. The applicants therefore had a good head start and with additional training on advanced IT skills, there is more likelihood that they will pass as they did. Figure 9 below illustrates the strategic partnership model and process flow of program implementation. Other participating Colleges and Universities likewise have hiring turn out rate between 15 to 60%. University of the Cordilleras had a 60% hiring rate, while the University of the Philippines at 50%. Aside from hiring as a final objective, Nova Computer College rooted for passing rate for certification exam on Fundamentals of IT (Fundamentals of IT adopted from Japan Information Technology Engineers Examination Center (JITEC) an office under the Information Technology. Out of 20 students trained, 3 passed or a good 15 % as the prevailing national passing rate is 13%. It would seem therefore that The APC Center partnership formula of leaving the pre-qualification to the industry partner stand a better chance towards successful hiring. It is thus worthwhile for other programs and projects on Industry-Academic Linkage to look explore the formula in their own implementation scheme. Institutional Industry-Academe Partnership Models Far Eastern University (FEU) is a one example of a University bringing Industry-Academic Partnership to an institutional level. In March 2007, the program was launched with department spearheading the model that will precisely to look after extensive linkages, the Admissions & External Relations Office (AERO) in tandem with the existing University Counseling and Career Office (UCCO). 216
245 N Industry C N Send Y Y I Collaborate and HIRED S IB A Asia Pacific Pro- De- Con- A Quality of Academic Programs Implem entat ion & Post- Implem entat Pre- Implem entat ion Pro- S A Commission on Pr Y N CHE Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Figure 9. The APC Center-CHED Post Baccalaureate Bridging Program Implementation Process Flow The APC Center CHED Post-Baccalaureate Bridging Program Program Stages Industry Partner Asia Pacific College Commission on Higher Education Pre- Implementation Commits to Hiring Schedule Implementation & Post- Implementation NO Collaborate and agree on content of ICT and ICT enabled competency-based training courses strategic to hiring requirements NO YES Send pre-qualified applicants to training Final Selection for Hiring Develop training Design, Competency Indicators and evaluation system Conduct training and evaluate Trainees Submit Training Report to Partner Industry YES HIRED Propose and Secure approval from CHED, funding support for Training Conduct Submit Training Report to CHED NO YES Provides Funding Support to Training CHED consolidates Report to Stakeholders Figure 10. Industry-Academe Educational Goals Mapping: The APC Center IBM Daksh Gateway Program & the CHED Post-Baccalaureate Bridging Program Industry-Academe Partnership Initiatives Continuum of Educational Goals Employment / Career opportunities Quality of Graduates The APC Center IBM Daksh Gateway Program CHED Post-Baccalaureate Bridging Program 217
246 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Synergy should develop between academe and industry, is the battle cry of FEU; and further emphasizing that Industry is the end user of the product of the academe, the graduates. It is therefore necessary to insure that our graduates are up to the challenge. Such statement may be a reminder to all higher education institution, now that realigning industry requirement to academic programs is imperative. Figure 11 illustrates the comprehensive menu of possible industry partnerships with FEU. In this model, FEU expands partnership models across all programs and services of the University, extending beyond OJT and employment services. Prior to this initiative, FEU did not have a program that addressed the growing mismatch, Albert Cabasada, Director for AERO remarks. Addressing the mismatch is as important as an objective as enabling exposure of students to high level professional environment during their apprenticeship. The Student Apprenticeship Program requires student evaluation by companies and in turn experiences of students will become input to curricular innovation. A number of other initiatives to increase employability of graduates are in place including job fairs, In-house testing and recruitment, career counseling and symposia to name a few. Again on the home front, the Asia Pacific College (APC) is an institution founded on the premise of Industry-Academe Linkage. The partnership of SM Foundation and IBM Philippines established APC for the purpose of bridging academe and industry delivered through Professional Training in ICT and ICT-enabled enterprises. Majority of the Board of Directors come from Industry, thereby enabling constant access to industry developments thereby guiding development and innovation of industry-strategic academic programs. Proudly we say, APC is where Industry Meets Academe. Taking from apprenticeship as a powerful teaching-learning model, APC yet enhances upon this strategy by instituting Project-based Learning, a teaching-learning strategy wherein a project application cuts across a series of sequential subjects. Moreover, each technical subject includes an actual industry tool or technology application project subject in the 1styear where students work in Teams. Internship at APC, which applies to all students, is full-time work with a school-selected company, 5 days a week, 8 hours a day for duration of 6 months or at least 2 trimesters. The Career and Placement Office performs an end to end processing from developing industry linkages to student application and placement, to student evaluation where industry professor gives the final grade of student. Students return to school for one more trimester of studies. The APC model has its successes. Aside from being a very efficient process, having very few Figure 11. Far Eastern University Industry-Academe Partnership Model FEU Industry-Academe Partnership Initiatives OJT Employment FEU Training Industry Scholarship Research Community 218
247 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education concerns or problems, we find that companies are more than willing to participate. Student learns to work in a bureaucracy or a business environment. Upon coming back to school, their interpersonal skills are as much developed as their technical skills. Moreover, about 20% of students eventually work with the companies they worked for. Figure 12 on the next page details the Industry-Academe Institutional Linkage Model. Asia Pacific College foundation as an institutional partnership between industry and academe, is constantly challenge by industry development. Yet one of the more important recent developments posted by IBM is the development of the Services Science, Management Engineering (SSME). As a global movement of IBM to address the unparalleled growth of global communications, business growth and technology innovation, APC will spearhead the development of a course on SSME. The shift of business and industry towards a focus on services has created a skills gap, especially in high value services, which require a workforce knowledgeable about business and information technology, as well as the human factors that go into a successful services operation. Many Universities across the globe have begun exploring and investing in this area, working in tandem with the business world. APC is about to embark on the new course as a major component of the Master in Information Management (MIM). The timeliness of this development in the Philippines cannot be underscored as we know that the Philippines is the natural destination for O&O services. Our contribution in the global market will necessitate up-scaling of skills and competencies of our graduates and more importantly, our graduates becoming participant to our country s economic growth. I have enumerated some notable Industry-Academe initiatives and discussed their essential roles in pursuing educational goals and their potential contribution to business and industry and the growth of the economy in general. The models present a variety, a menu of options that will further enable the Summit participants to define a progressive development model of academic program innovation and success. I have brought to light these initiatives as they contribute to specific educational goals in the hope that each College or University may craft their roles within a community of practice. There are those that will elect to propagate extensive faculty training, those that will confine their initiatives to strengthening and reinventing the curriculum towards relevance to industry. And some will root for improved hiring rates. All such initiatives will be necessary and important in developing the strategic conditions and environment to develop a new breed of graduates. Appendix 3-G: Workshop 4-A(4) Driving Breakthrough Growth in the Philippine O&O Sector 219
248 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 220
249 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 221
250 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 3-H: Workshop 4-A(5) The Philippine Electronics Industry 222
251 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 223
252 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 224
253 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 225
254 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 226
255 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 227
256 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 3-I: Workshop 5 Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of the Three Education Agencies of Government Prescriptions to a Lingering Illness The Philippine education system at present is confronted with formidable challenges. Many people believe that the education system is infested with various ills that may lead to its detriment and eventual death as the system may have been overlooked over the past years and left with no solid prescription to resolve its predicaments. But many say that the same illness had thrived for years, even as early as the Monroe Survey in 1925, as many commissioned studies of the government had shown in its findings, indicating no significant improvement in Philippine education over 70 years a situation of continuous reform without a substantial change. When the Congressional Commission to Review and Assess Philippine Education (EDCOM) was created in 1990, the education system was considered to be the most expanded school systems in the world and the highest participation rate of the relevant school age groups in all the three levels (elementary, secondary and tertiary). In 1991, the participation rate among the elementary school age population reached 97.78%, indicating that the country was close to attaining universal elementary education. In 1990, enrollment in all levels peaked at 15.4 million, which is about a quarter of the total population. Findings also showed that one out of four Filipinos was in school. The literacy rate of Filipinos 10 years old and above stretched to 89% in 1989, which is relatively higher than in most developing countries, while functional literacy was at only about 73%. Despite a rather positive indication of improvement in the education system, the results of the EDCOM review and assessment revealed mystifying and alarming results. Specifically, these are: 1. The Philippines is not spending enough for education compared to the countries in the ASEAN 1.3% of GNP in the Philippines vs. 3.7%, 3.6% and 6% in Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, respectively (1988). 2. Disparities in access to education, formal and non-formal, prevail at all levels (elementary, secondary, tertiary) biased in favor of rich, urban, high income students and communities. The percentage of incomplete primary/elementary schools are highest in depressed regions. 3. Achievement levels are low. Students from rich, urban and developed communities have higher achievements records. Pupils on average learn only 55% or even less of what must be learned. 4. Drop-out rates in both elementary and secondary schools are highest in rural and less developed communities and among poor students. 5. Muslim and cultural communities as well as special learners suffer from benign neglect. 6. Early childhood care and development are limited to the rich and affluent. 7. Non-formal education services are inadequate and are found mainly in developed communities 8. Class interruptions and the length of the school year reduce learning and its quality. 9. Science and technology education is inadequate. 10. Innovations in education and technology hardly find their adoption in schools. 11. Values education in schools is lacking and ineffective. 12. The bilingual education policy; i.e. use of English and Filipino as languages of instruction, affects the quality of learning. 13. Mismatches occur between the supply and demand for educated and trained manpower. 14. Irrelevance of education to individual and social needs. 15. Teachers are inadequately trained. 16. Graduate education is mediocre, limited and underdeveloped. 17. The organizational structure of the educational system is inefficient and ineffective. Considering the above findings, one of the numerous recommendations of the EDCOM was the creation of a Commission on Higher Education that shall be responsible for both public and private higher education. It was also recommended to make education manageable by re-structuring the 228
257 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education country s system of education, creating a Department of Basic Education (DBE), a Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) and a Commission on Higher Education. The CHED shall be a collegial body, to exercise programming and coordinative rather than administrative responsibility over higher education programs and institutions. The program restructuring was proposed to ensure that program focus is clear, resources are allocated rationally and plans are realistic and attainable. In its pursuit of educational reform, the Philippine government took every step to implement the needed changes in the system. Yet, after eight year, the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform (PCER) was created with the express mandate to define a budget-feasible program of reform, and identify executive priority policy recommendations and items for a legislative agenda on education. This was yet another endeavor to review and assess the state of the Philippine education system. One of the nine proposals constituting the PCER Agenda for Reform included the establishment of the National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE). The recommendation states that the trifocalization of the education sector into DECS, CHED and TESDA in 1992 has allowed the education agencies concerned to focus more sharply on their respective mandates. Over time, however, there has been felt a growing need for greater coordination among these agencies, a common approach to trans-subsectoral issues such as assessment mechanism and articulation between levels, and a more harmonized approach to total education planning and resource allocation. The NCCE was created to ensure that the each function of the country s education agencies do not overlap with one another. The NCCE was seen as the keystone: of education as it ensures the integrated and coordinated operation of the three agencies responsible for Philippine education. The NCCE, created through Executive Order No. 632, is composed of the Secretary of DECS or DBE, the Director General of TESDA and the Chairperson of CHED. The Council may however invite as resource persons the Secretaries of DBM, NEDA, DOST, DOLE, and heads of such other agency or office, public or private, as may be necessary. Assessing if the Symptoms still Persists Various moves have been taken by government as well as private organization of education towards re-assessing the current state of Philippine education. Some perceive the education system as one that is plunged in crisis. It was claimed that some of the treatment given were not as effective to really arrest the problems surrounding Philippine education. The education system in the country is anchored to the fundamental philosophy of the 1987 Constitution as the State is mandated to protect, foster and promote the right of all citizens to affordable quality education at all levels and shall take appropriate stages to ensure that education shall be accessible to all. While this principle is indeed overstated and indeed laudable in its mission, Philippine education is considered to a structure flawed in several areas. Many critiques of the Philippine education view the trifocalization of the education system (through the creation of DepEd, CHED and TESDA) as one that creates cross-cutting problems especially since the basic premise is that three different people with the same Cabinet rank, report to the President and manage the various levels of the education ladder. Further to this dilemma is when the question of how to harmonize all educational efforts at the various levels and ensuring the education, continuum and knowledge integration among the three agencies. Benchmarking Prescriptions Developed countries around the world may seem to have a similar structure for their education system. It is common among these nations to have an integrated system of education, led by only one Minister or Secretary of Education, in-charge of both formal and informal education. An example is Thailand which has now a new administrative structure of the Ministry of Education. The present government of Thailand has adopted a policy of bureaucratic reform so as to have in place an efficient administrative system with a lean structure. The new system is said to be suitable to the prevailing situation and responsive to the needs for national economic and social development. The Thai government has accordingly taken urgent measures for the enactment of the legislations for streamlining the different ministries and agencies to respond to global trends as well as to national economic and social reforms. To date, Thailand s bureaucratic reform centers on obtaining a leaner organization and attaining higher efficiency. It further permits better participation of the people. New budgeting techniques were adopted, making sure that the country moves forward in reform. Incentives 229
258 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy and remuneration were also enhanced and made responsive so as to attract the best professionals for civil service who are trained and honed to have untainted integrity and committed to the common interest. The reform of the Thai government resulted to the restructuring of the different ministries and agencies. Taking effect on October 1, 2002, the national administration us under the aegis of 20 different ministries as follows: Office of the Prime Minister 2. Ministry of Defence 3. Ministry of Finance 4. Ministry of Foreign Affairs 5. Ministry of Tourism and Sports 6. Ministry of Social Development and Human Security 7. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives 8. Ministry of Transport 9. Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment 10. Ministry of Information and Communication Technology 11. Ministry of Energy 12. Ministry of Commerce 13. Ministry of Interior 14. Ministry of Justice 15. Ministry of Labour 16. Ministry of Culture 17. Ministry of Science and Technology 18. Ministry of Education 19. Ministry of Public Health 20. Ministry of Industry Regarding the Ministry of Education, the 1999 National Education Act and its 2002 Amendment as well as the 2003 Act for Streamlining of Ministries and Governmental Agencies mandate the amalgamation of the 3 ministries and agency responsible for education, namely, Ministry of Education, Ministry of University Affairs, and Office of the National Education Commission into a single Ministry of Education with a new administrative structure. The Administrative Organization of the Ministry of Education Act of B.E. 2546(2003) has been approved by the Joint Standing Committee of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the new structure of the Ministry of Education therefore comprises 5 major offices and a unit as follows: 1. Office of the Permanent Secretary with the Permanent Secretary (level 11) serving as chief executive; the Office comprises the following bureaus: Bureau of General Administration Bureau of Policy and Strategy Bureau of International Cooperation Bureau of Legal Affairs Bureau of Inspection and Evaluation Office of the Teacher Civil Service and Educational Personnel Commission Office of the Private Education Commission Office of the Non-Formal Education Commission Bureau of Information and Communication Technology Bureau of Scout Movement, Red Cross Youth and Student Affairs National Institute for Development of Teachers, Faculty Staffs and Educational Personnel 2. Office of the Education Council with the Secretary-General of the National Education Council (level 11) serving as chief executive; the Office comprises the following bureaus/units: Bureau of General Administration Bureau of Education Policy and Planning Bureau of Education Standards and Learning Development Bureau of Educational Research and Development Bureau of Education Administration Evaluation Bureau of Education Law Development 3. Office of the Basic Education Commission with the Secretary-General of the Basic Education Commission (level 11) serving as chief executive; the Office comprises the following bureaus: Bureau of General Administration Bureau of Policy and Planning Bureau of Academic Affairs and Educational Standards Bureau of Monitoring and Evaluation Bureau of Special Education Bureau of Personnel Administration Development and Legal Affairs Bureau of
259 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Finance Bureau for Innovative Development in Education Bureau of Educational Testing Bureau of Technology for Teaching and Learning 4. Office of the Higher Education Commission with the Secretary-General of the Higher Education Commission (level 11) serving as chief executive; the Office comprises the following bureaus: Bureau of General Administration Bureau of Policy and Planning Bureau of International Cooperation Strategy Bureau of Standards and Evaluation Bureau of Cooperation and Promotion Bureau of Student Development Bureau of Personnel Administration and Development Bureau of Community College Administration Bureau of Central Education Testing 5. Office of the Vocational Education Commission with the Secretary-General of the Vocational Education Commission (level 11) serving as chief executive; the Office comprises the following bureaus: Bureau of General Administration Bureau of Policy and Planning Bureau of Cooperation Bureau of Vocational Education Standards and Qualifications Bureau of Teachers and Personnel Competency Development Bureau of Research and Development Bureau of Monitoring and Evaluation 6. Office of the Minister with the chief of the Office of the Minister as chief executive; the Office comprises the following 3 units: Unit of General Administration Unit of Political Relations Unit of Academic Support There are also public organizations under the supervision of the Ministry of Education, namely: Office for National Education Standards and Quality Assessment International Institute for Trade and Development Mahidol Wittayanusorn School National Institute of Educational Testing Service National Institute of Technologies for Education There are also, Kurusapa (Teachers Council of Thailand), Office of the Welfare Promotion Commission for Teachers and Educational Personnel, Institute for the Promotion of Teaching Science and Technology, Language Institute and universities/autonomous higher education institutions which are under the aegis of the Ministry of Education. The above 5 major offices emanating from the new administrative structure of the Ministry of Education report directly to the Minister without following the previous line of command through the Permanent Secretary. The Bureau of International Cooperation (formerly External Relations Division), Office of the Permanent Secretary, assumes major responsibilities for international relations and cooperation. It also continues to serve as Secretariat of the Thai National Commission for UNESCO and Secretariat of the Thai National Commission for SEAMEO. Endnotes: The Emergence of Schools of the People: Implications for Education Policy and Research. Dr. Maria Luisa C. Doronilla, Dr. Josefina R. Cortes, Edited by Socorro C. Espiritu, Ph.D., Katha Publishing Co. Inc., Quezon City, Ibid. Ibid. Presidential Commission on Educational Reform Philippine Agenda for Educational Reform: The PCER Report. Manila Ibid Edgardo J. Angara. Retrogressing. Opinion and Editorial. Manila Bulletin, Sunday, August 26, Eduardo P. Garovillas, Jose Rizal University, Towards a Realistic Integration of RP Education System. Manila Bulletin, September 25, Bureau of International Cooperation, Office of the Permanent Secretary. New Administrative Structure of the Ministry of Education Ibid. 231
260 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 3-J: Workshop 6 Student Loan Program for the Philippines By Mona Dumlao Valisno, PhD and Reynaldo T. Peña, EdD I. Introduction Situationer: 1. Less than one percent of student loans under the Philippines Study Now Pay Later Plan (SNPLP) have been repaid. Throughout the years since the establishment of the Educational Loan Fund (ELF) in 1976, under PD 932 this extremely low percentage of repayment collection has been a chronic problem. Because of this, one former Secretary of Education had commented that it would be better for the government to use the money allocated to SNPLP for scholarship instead and forget about collecting repayment. But that suggestion might be a sin of omission against the Constitution considering that under Section 3, Article XIV it mandates the government to: Establish and maintain a system of scholarship grants, student loan programs, subsidies and other incentives which shall be available to deserving students in both public and private schools, especially to the under privileged; [Underscoring supplied] 2. The old SNPLP was for students in both public and private schools, as provided for in the above-quoted provision of the Constitution, and reinforced by Section 7 of PD 932, which states; Any Filipino citizen who graduates from a duly authorized secondary school, whether public and private, desiring to pursue further studies may avail of assistance under any of the schemes, the basic consideration being he is poor but deserving. The Council shall determine such other qualifications as it deems proper for he purpose. With the passage in July 1988 of RA 6728 or the Government Assistance for Students and Teachers of Private Education (GASTPE), another dimension of the problem on student loan came about. The GASTPE law has an education loan Fund (ELF) component, and the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) implemented the ELF for students in the private sector, as mandated. But apparently the CHED took this to mean the new Study Now Pay Later Plan (SNPLP) and since then there has been no appropriations for student loan for students in public education institutions (HEIs.) Thus during the consultations conducted on December 31, 2007 at the Mansion House, Baguio City, by President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo with education officials from Regions 1, 2, 3 and the Cordilliera Aministrative Region (CAR), a participant from the public sector requested that the SNPLP for State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) be restored. 232 Legal requirements aside, why the need for more student loan allocation? 4. The Education Highway proposed by the Presidential Task Force for Education presents the vision of the Filipino family which is to ensure that each son or daughter has the opportunity to get a high quality education that will make him/her a whole person and lead him/her to a productive well-paying job or become a successful entrepreneur. This means being able to make their children obtain a college degree. And on the part of policy makers they realize that higher education is universally recognized as being the engine of economic growth. But who should pay the cost of higher education? In his paper Higher Educational Accessibility and Financial viability: The Role of Student Loans D. Bruce Johnstone (1986) assumes that the costs of higher education is borne by four parties: governments (or taxpayers), parents, students, and philanthropists. This policy of cost-sharing is a deliberate, or policy-driven shift in the bearing of these costs from a substantial reliance on government, or the general taxpayer, and being shared as well by parents and students. The purpose served by government-sponsored loan schemes varies from country to country. Two major but contrasting objectives for loans schemes may be identified. Cost sharing: public universities throughout the world, and particularly in developing countries, are underfinanced; budgetary parsimony has resulted in public universities turning to greater cost recovery, in an effort to tap alternative sources of funding. This may take the form of higher, more realistic tuition fees or increased payments for subsidized lodgings and meals. Recourse to the banking system for a regular loan to ease this payment burden may be unavailable to students; banks are notoriously loath to
261 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education lend for educational programs- a clear case of market failure. Hence, there is a role for a governmentbacked student loan scheme to fill this gap. Social targeting: these schemes are concerned explicitly and directly with enhancing the access to higher education for the poor. Where targeted specifically at disadvantaged groups, loan schemes (particularly where subsidized), can lead to greater access of the poor to university education, thus contributing to social equity. II. International Models of Student Loans In the late 1940s, a Columbian youth by the name of Gabriel Betancourt dreamt of going to the university even though he came from a relatively poor family. He convinced the manager of the company for which he worked to give him a loan to pay for his studies abroad. After he obtained his degree he was so thankful for the opportunity he had benefited from that he decided to promote a way to institutionalize this type of loan. He successfully lobbied the Government of Columbia and, in 1950, helped to establish the Columbian Student Loan Institute, ICETEX, the first institution of that kind not only in Latin America but the entire world. Student loan programs, thus, become a means for achieving the goal of enhancing accessibility enabling students entry to universities through the assistance (which implies to some a need for high degree of subsidization) and repayment scheme. Specifically, they are also being designed to be, as nearly as possible, to cater to both need-based and generally available that is, available to poor but deserving students. 1. Thailand: In 1996, the Education Loan Fund (ELF) was established, becoming operational in In 1998, the Education Loan Act (ELA) was passed to provide a legal framework. The Education Loans Office (ELO) was subsequently established. The stated purpose of the ELF was to increase higher education access solely for students of disadvantaged economic status. The Thai concept of the loan fund is borrowed from the Australian example. Three ministries are involved in the provision of the ELF: the Ministries of Education and of Finance and the Commission on Higher Education. The ELF is managed by the ELF Committee. Krung Thai Bank is responsible for loan execution. The ELF is based on supply-side financing. As such, the government gives resources (i.e., money) to universities on a quota basis. Students apply for loans (covering tuition and fees and living expenses) through universities. Students must start to pay back loans (principal plus 1 percent interest) two years after graduation or discontinuance of study. The loans must be paid back in full with interest within 15 years. One major drawback to this system involves graduates who remain on very low incomes or are unemployed. The scheme has been subject to much criticism, and public debate has ensued on ways to reform the system. In April 2004, the Thai cabinet passed a resolution the plan for a new (rather than reformed) loan scheme for Thailand. The new scheme- the Thailand Income Contingent and Allowance Loan (TICAL) scheme- is closely modeled on the successful Australian Higher Education Contribution Scheme (HECS)- arguably too closely, given the very different institutional contexts in the two countries. As in HECS, repayment collection is to be assigned to the tax authorities and would be income-contingent- that is, set as a percentage of current income, with a higher percentage being due on larger incomes In sum, under the new TICAL scheme the aim of facilitating cost recovery is of central concern, displacing the more direct social objectives of broader access to higher education for the poor that were dominant under the old scheme. 2. Australia: The Higher Education Contribution Scheme (HECS) in Australia is a generally available loan program up to the full amount of tuition, which in the year 2000 ranges in three bands from $A 3463 [$ 2664] (for arts and sciences, nursing, and education), to $A 5772 [$ 4440] (for law and medicine). Up to 25 percent of the tuition due is discounted for paying up front. The interest rate, as in Sweden and the UK, mirrors the rate of inflation that is a zero real rate of interest. Repayments are income contingent on annual incomes above $A 21,984 [$ 16,910]. Rates range from 3 percent to a maximum of 6 percent on annual incomes in excess of $A 39,573 [$ 30,440]. Repayments due are collected as an income surtax by the employer, or are paid along with estimated or year-end taxes due. There is no forgiveness after a certain age or passage of years since the borrowing took place. According to the definitions above, HECS is not a graduate tax, as individual accounts and balances owed are maintained on each borrower. However, enlistment of the national tax system gives HECS the appearance of a graduate tax, and assures both a low administrative cost of servicing as well as a very low default rate. (Significantly, both of these results could be attained as well with a conventional student loan plan that similarly enlisted the authority and efficiency of the national tax system, or otherwise 233
262 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy mandated employer withholding for student borrowers in repayment.) 3. United Kingdom: The UK student loan program began in as a small, conventional (i.e. mortgage type), strictly top up loan program as the government began to freeze, and even lower, some of the once generous means-tested maintenance grants. The private sector never embraced the program, however, and in , a much expanded program was announced by the government to replace the former maintenance grants and to accommodate the inauguration of means-tested tuition. Some borrowing is generally available to most students, with maximum loans means-tested. As in Sweden, loans carry an interest rate that mirrors the rate of inflation that is a zero real rate of interest. Loans are administered by the government s Student Loans Company. Repayment is income contingent 9 percent on marginal income above 10,000 [$ 14,858], deducted by the employer as though an income surtax and passed to the government treasury. Any indebtedness remaining after the borrower reaches age 65 is to be forgiven. 4. The Netherlands: Student loans are provided in the Netherlands to cover tuition and maintenance. Part of the loan, including a basic allowance that is not means-tested, plus another means-tested component, can be converted to a grant if satisfactory academic progress is maintained. Interest on the remainder varies annually at the government s borrowing rate plus about 1 percent to cover administrative costs. Repayments are fixed after a two-year grace period, with an income contingent payment feature for those whose incomes are low. Repayments remaining for those repaying on an income contingent basis are forgiven after 15 years. 5. The United States: The US provides mainly conventional loans, generally available to all students with some financial need (including some students from upper-middle income families attending very expensive private colleges and universities), at minimally-subsidized rates of interest, with the federal government subsidizing the interest during the in-school years for needy students, and bearing most of the risk of default for all students. Much of the capital and loan origination is provided by the private banking sector, although the federal government can lend to students directly, in turn either selling the notes in the private capital market or tapping the federal government s general borrowing capacity. Student borrowers can elect to repay according to an income contingent repayment schedule, but as yet relatively few have elected this repayment option, which features mainly convenience and little ultimate low-earnings protection. Assuming that we need to increase the allocation for student loans, what should be the appropriate amount? At one end of the student financial assistance spectrum, a country may opt to convert its scholarship programs to student loan program. (In 1992 the Venezuelan Scholarship Foundation, FUN- DAYACUCHO, was converted into loan institution.) The Philippines may be considered to be at the opposite end of the spectrum the SNPLP constituting less than one percent of the whole student financial assistance fund (P7.2 M out of P1.1 B. total allocation for all student financial assistance programs for SY ,-- please see following table). A corollary issue is about the objectives of the student loan program. As discussed above (Ziderman), the objective of student loan could either be cost sharing or social targeting. Our Study-Now-Pay-Later-Plans, (based on PD 932 and RA 6827 are both basically socially targeted with some features of cost recovery. The SNPLP, old and new, are meant to provide greater access to higher education for the poorer segment of Philippine society. As mentioned above, Thailand has revised its objective from socially targeted to cost sharing. Do we intend to follow suit? Perhaps we could strike a good balance between student loan and scholarship grant. Both can be socially targeted. But another targeting may be about efficiency and relative assurance of return on investment. In terms of efficiency and effectiveness, it would be best to target those in the home stretch the third and forth year students, the focus of the SAFE4SR program. But social targeting, the needy for example, requires that the financial assistance begins with first year students. If we choose to expand the allocation for student loans, the collection of repayment system must necessarily be improved from the existing less than one percent repayment to approximately 100 percent. Lessons in management of student loan programs from other countries could benefit proposed reforms: Management Approaches to Student Debt 1) Make the process simple. In Australia, New Zealand, and the UK loans repayment are administered through the federal income tax system, so that income can be easily taken into account when calculating rates of repayment. That means borrowers don t have to fill out extra paperwork and overcome bureaucratic hurdles to prove they need help, like they do in the US. 234
263 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 2) Low or no interest loans. The Netherlands charged 3.05% interest in New Zealand charges a rate equal to the government s cost of borrowing, but waives it for low-income students. The United Kingdom charges zero real interest, tying loans to the rate of inflation. Starting July 2007, the US will charge a fixed rate of 6.8% interest on most student loans. 3) No payments until earnings reach a minimum level. Many countries do not require borrowers to make payments if their income is below a certain threshold. For a single borrower in Australia, it is $A 35,000 (about $US 26,000). In Germany it is 11,520 (about $US 14,000). In New Zealand it is $NZ 16,172 (about $US 11,000). Other countries use complex formulas to calculate this threshold, rather than a set amount. In the UK, it s 15,000 (about $US 26,500). In the US, borrowers with low incomes have very limited options for delaying or reducing payments. 4) Link payment size to income. In New Zealand, after the borrower s income passes the threshold described above, their loan payments are 10% of whatever they earn above that amount. In the UK s new system, they pay 9% of income above the threshold. In Australia, the percentage of income a borrower is required to repay per month rises with income: the minimum is 4%, and the maximum is 8%. For most US borrowers, there is no maximum percentage you just have to pay. 5. Set a maximum repayment period. In some countries, outstanding debts are cancelled after a certain number of years. That period is 25 years in Sweden and the UK, 15 in the Netherlands, and 20 in Germany. In the US, the government can take money out of retirees Social Security checks if they have not paid off all their student loans. III. Policy Options for Student Loans 1. Right mix between the amount of student loans and scholarship grants to be made available by government. The range could be 100 percent scholarship and zero percent for student loans or vice versa. At present, the student loan allocation is Php 7,293, out of a total of Php1,101,204, for all student financial assistance programs or.66 per cent. If the PTFE proposed dual stream for higher education is adopted, only about 15 percent of those who will intend to enroll in degree courses will opt for university courses. This will be approximately 400,000 students. Assuming that only 50 percent will pass the admission test, this would mean about 200,000 total enrollees for university courses. If the third and fourth year students are targeted, and assuming that 50 percent are on these levels, this would mean 100,000 students. If only the 50 percent lower income group is targeted, then, 50,000 students will be eiligible for financial assistance. And if the government decides a split between student loans and scholarship, this would mean 25,000 students will be eligible for student loans. But only 25,000 will receive scholarship grants. Considering that there are now a total of 61,954 students under the student financial programs, there will be a decrease of 11,954 students that will benefit from scholarship programs. But the government can decide to retain this 11,954 students either under scholarship grant or student loan funds. Definitely though, there will be a great leap from the current 503 SNPLP slots of 25, Another policy option is between social targeting and cost sharing. Government subsidy usually accompanies social targeting whereas cost sharing is associated with full cost recovery. If socially targeted, which segment of Philippine society should get priority? Under the current policy for PESFA, in general, the poorest deserving sector gets the bulk of scholarship slots. Operationally, the cut-off family annual income is Php150, Those who score 90 to 99+ percentile in the selection are awarded the National Scholarship Grant and those who obtain a percentile rank of 80 to 89 are awarded the Regional Scholarship Grant. National scholarship awardees receive higher stipends than the regional scholarship grantees. SNPLP awardees must have a gross family income not exceeding Php150, and a weighted average of 2.5 or higher for the last semester he/she attended or at least obtained a 75 percentile grade in the NSAP. Should the government allow students whose family income is higher than the ceiling for SNPLP to take student loans? 3. Should a component of the student loan aim at the third and fourth year college students as the target under the Student Assistance for Financing Education for Strong Republic (SAFE4SR)? Not a few students drop in the homestretch simply for the reason that their families could no longer sustain their schooling. Obviously, their family s investment has become bigger at this stage; making loans available to these students will increase their chances of completing their degrees. 235
264 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 236
265 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education 4. Should the loan repayment be income contingent? The Australian model for income contingent repayment scheme was followed by Thailand. Shall we got the same way? Income contingent repayment scheme means after graduation and getting a job the borrower pays higher percentage as his income goes higher. 5. What mechanisms should be put in place in order to assure the greatest percentage of repayment of student loans? The present loan repayment collection scheme has produced a less than 1 percent repayment (according to the Office of Student Services, Commission on Higher Education). It is almost like the repayment is voluntary on the part of the student borrowers. In the past, the names of defaulters were given to the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI). Not much improvement in the collection took place. 6. The Australian student loan program is linked with their federal tax system. A student borrower is given an identification number which he will use permanently in school, in his job, and in the payment of taxes. Because of their highly efficient tax collection system, a percentage of repayment is achieved. In the Philippines, should the BIR tax system be utilized? Can we be assured of their cooperation? References: Ziderman, Adrian. Student Loans in Thailand: Social Targeting to Cost Sharing. International Higher Edcuation. Number 42, Winter Salmi, Jamil. Student Loans in an International Perspective. The World Bank Ex perience. Savatsomboon, Gamon. Student Loan Financing in the University Sector in Thai land. Center for Higher Education. Boston College. International Higher Education, Spring Johnstone, D. Bruce. Higher Educational Accessibility and Financial Viability: The Role of Student Loans. World Report on Higher Education: The Financing of Universities II International Barcelona Conference on Higher Education, Global University Network for Innovation (GUNI) Barcelona, Spain, May and November 28-30, 2005 CHED Annual Report Pasig City, Philippines   237
266 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 4: Executive Orders Appendix 4-A: Executive Order No. 273 Institutionalizing the System of National Coordination, Assesment, Planning and Monitoring of the entire Educational System Appendix 4-B: Executive Order No. 632 Amending Executive Order No. 273 (Series of 2000) and Mandating a Presidential Assistant to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System Appendix 4-C: Executive Order No. 652 Creating the Presidential Task Force to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System Appendix 4-D: Executive Order No. 652-A Amending the Executive Order No. 652 (Series of 2007) by including the Chairman of the Professional Regulation Commission as a Member of the Presidential Task Force to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System Appendix 4-E: Executive Order No. 652-B Amending further Executive Order No. 652 (Series of 2007) by including the Chairman of the Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations (COCOPEA) as the Representative from the Private Sector to the Presidential Task Force to Asses, Plan and Monitor the entire Educational System Appendix 4-F: Executive Order No. 693 Mandating that Heads of Government Agencies having the rank and level of Department Secretary shall henceforth be addressed as Secretary of their Agencies Appendix 4-G: Executive Order No. 694 Enabling Higher Educational Institutions to Opt to Ladderize their Education Programs without need for issuance of permit from the Commission on Higher Education and the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority. Appendix 4-A: Executive Order 273 MALACAÑANG Manila EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 273 INSTITUTIONALIZING THE SYSTEM OF NATIONAL COORDINATION, ASSESSMENT, PLANNING AND MONITORING OF THE ENTIRE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM WHEREAS, the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform, or PCER, was created in 1998 to continue and build on the work of the 1991 Congressional Commission on Education (otherwise known as EDCOM) to further strengthen the role of education in accelerating national development and global competitiveness; WHEREAS, the major recommendations of the EDCOM have caused the restructuring and trifocalization of the management of the country s educational system; WHEREAS, this trifocalization has led to greater focus and depth in the planning and implementation of development programs of the co-equal education sub-sectors-namely, basic education, technical education and skills development and higher education, thus resulting in the enhancement of the capabilities of these three (3) sub-sectors to achieve their respective mandates. WHEREAS, PCER studies point out, as EDCOM anticipated, that the salutary effects of trifocalization of education notwithstanding, there are perceived concerns and issues arising from possible overlaps and gaps as well as inconsistencies in and non-alignment of policies, plans and programs; and 238
267 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education WHEREAS, in order to ensure effective coordination, planning and allocation of scarce resources among the three subsectors of education and training, PCER reiterates and adopts EDCOM s recommendation to put in place a National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE). NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH EJERCITO ESTRADA, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby order: SECTION 1. Creation and Composition of the Council. The National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE) is hereby created and attached to the Office of the President for administrative purposes, to be composed of the following: Secretary Department of Education, Culture & Sports (DECS or DBE) Chairman Commission on Higher Education Director-General Technical Education and Skills Development Authority - Member - Member - Member It shall be chaired by the members on a rotating basis for a term of two (2) years each. SEC. 2. Participation of other Sectors. As the need arises, the Council may invite as resource persons the Secretaries of NEDA, DBM, DOST and DOLE as well as the participation of representatives from the education, business and other sectors, both public and private and non-governmental organizations, which have direct stakes in education to ensure broad-based consultations and proper dissemination of information and advocacy. SEC. 3. Mandates and Functions. The Council shall discharge its responsibilities in accordance with the following specific mandates: to serve as the regular forum for trans-subsectoral consultations on cross-cutting policies and programs; to harmonize goals and objectives for the entire education system and to dovetail them to national development plans; to review existing and proposed programs and projects for tighter inter-subsector coordination; to set priorities for the education system and recommend corresponding financial requirements; to pursue and monitor implementation of the reforms proposed by the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform (PCER); to establish, oversee and monitor the implementation of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS) and its operations; to designate and provide guidelines for Philippine representatives in international and national conferences/meetings with cross-cutting themes or concerns in education; and to convene a biennial National Congress on Education for the purpose of assessing, updating/ upgrading and strengthening of the educational system and its components. SEC. 4. It shall be assisted by a small high-powered Secretariat whose main responsibility is to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of the NCCE. It shall be composed of a Director, a permanent staff of five (5) and others seconded to the Council as needed from the three (3) member agencies. SEC. 5. In the discharge of its functions and responsibilities, the NCCE may commission highly-qualified experts/specialists and/or education consultancy groups to provide specified services. SEC. 6. It shall adopt its own internal operating rules and procedures and define the duties and responsibilities of the Secretariat, its staffing pattern, and compensations schedule. SEC. 7. The NCCE shall submit an annual performance report to the President, as well as program and policy recommendations affecting the entire education system. 239
268 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy SEC. 8. In no case whatsoever shall the NCCE detract from the autonomy and independence of DECS, TESDA and CHED. SEC. 9. Statistics for Educational Planning For the purpose of carrying out the mandates of the NCCE, the National Statistics office (NSO) is hereby directed to strengthen its core or basic unit responsible for the generation and analysis of education and training statistics and to systematize its operational links with the statistical units in the Department of Education, Culture and Sports, Commission on Higher Education and Technical Education and Skills Development Authority. The NCCE shall coordinate with the NSO in all matters pertaining to the generation, analysis, utilization and dissemination of all educational statistics and information. SEC. 10. Government agencies are hereby directed to second and/or detail competent individuals to the NCCE as may be requested. SEC 11. The Council is directed to convene the first National Congress on the State of Philippine Education by 2001 in order to, among others, monitor the fulfillment of all the policy and program recommendations of both the EDCOM and the PCER. SEC 12. Initial Funding of the NCCE.- The sum of fourteen million pesos is hereby appropriated from the President s Social Fund for the initial mobilization and first year of operation of the NCCE. Thereafter, the sum of Ten Million Pesos (P10,000,000.00) shall be included in the General Appropriations Act. SEC.13. Repealing Clause. - All executive issuances inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby repealed or amended accordingly. SEC. 14. Effectivity.- This Executive Order shall take effect immediately. Done in the City of Manila, this 7 th day of August, in the year of Our Lord, two thousand. By the President: JOSEPH EJERCITO ESTRADA RONALDO B. ZAMORA Executive Secretary Appendix 4-B: Executive Order 632 MALACAÑAN PALACE MANILA EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 632 AMENDING EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 273 (SERIES OF 2000) AND MANDATING A PRESIDENTIAL ASSISTANT TO ASSESS, PLAN AND MONITOR THE ENTIRE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM WHEREAS, the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform, or PCER, was created in 1998 to continue and build on the work of the 1991 Congressional Commission on Education to further strengthen the role of education in accelerating national development and global competitiveness; WHEREAS, Executive Order No. (EO) 273 (Series of 2000) created a National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE) with the following specific mandates: To serve as the regular forum for trans-subsectoral consultations on cross-cutting policies and programs; To harmonize goals and objectives for the entire education system and to dovetail them to national development plans; 240
269 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education To review existing and proposed programs and projects for tighter inter-subsector coordination; To set priorities for the education system and recommend corresponding financial requirements; To pursue and monitor implementation of the reforms proposed by the PCER; To establish, oversee and monitor the implementation of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System and its operations; To designate and provide guidelines for Philippine representatives in international and national conferences/meetings with cross-cutting themes or concerns in education; and To convene a biennial National Congress on Education for the purpose of assessing, updating/upgrading and strengthening of the educational system and its components; WHEREAS, in EO 273, the chair rotates every two years among the heads of the Department of Education (Dep Ed), the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and the Technical Educational and Skills Development Authority (TESDA); WHEREAS, CHED AND Dep Ed vehemently opposed the TESDA Chairmanship; WHEREAS, EO 273 was shelved; WHEREAS, the need to synchronize and harmonize the government s educational policies, programs and initiatives becomes all the more urgent given our country s ranking in world competitiveness; NOW, THEREFORE I, GLORIA M. ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, do hereby amend EO 273 (Series of 2000) by abolishing the NCCE and mandating a Presidential Assistant to exercise its functions. All executive issuances inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby repealed or amended accordingly. This Executive Order shall take effect immediately. DONE in the City of Manila, this 10 th day of July, in the year of Our Lord, two thousand and seven. By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Appendix 4-C: Executive Order 652 MALACAÑAN PALACE MANILA EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 652 CREATING THE PRESIDENTIAL TASK FORCE TO ASSESS, PLAN AND MONITOR THE ENTIRE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM WHEREAS, the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform, or PCER, was created in 1998 to continue and build on the work of the 1991 Congressional Commission on Education to further strengthen the role of education in accelerating national development and global competitiveness; WHEREAS, Executive Order No. (EO) 273 (Series of 2000) created a National Coordinating Council for Education (NCEE); WHEREAS, EO 632 amended EO 273 (Series of 2000) and mandated a Presidential Assistant (PA) for Education in place of the NCCE to assess, plan and monitor the entire educational system; WHEREAS, pursuant to EO 273 now EO 632, in the discharge of its functions and responsibilities, the NCCE now the Office of the PA for Education may commission highly qualified experts/specialists and/or education consultancy groups to provide specific services; 241
270 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy NOW, THEREFORE I, GLORIA M. ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby order: Section 1. Creation. - There is hereby created the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System. Section 2. Composition and Organization - The Task Force shall be composed of the following: 1. Secretary, Department of Education 2. Chairman, Commission on Higher Education 3. Chairman, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority 4. Presidential Assistant for Education 5. Five (5) representatives from the private sector to be appointed/designated by the President. The Chairman of the Task force shall be designated by the President from among the representatives from the private sector, and co-chaired by the Chairman, Commission on Higher Education. Section 3. Powers and Functions. - The Task Force shall exercise the following functions and duties: 1. To design a mechanism in the holding of regular fora for trans-subsectoral consultations on cross-cutting policies and programs; 2. To identify strategies to dovetail the goals and objectives of the education system, especially tertiary education, to national development plans; 3. To review existing and proposed programs from all the three (3) education agencies of government and other government agencies with education programs for tighter inter-subsector coordination; 4. To provide guidelines in setting priorities for the education system, especially tertiary education, and recommend corresponding financial requirements; 5. To design the monitoring scheme for the implementation of reforms proposed by the PCER as updated by the Medium Term Philippine Development Plan of the Arroyo administration, especially on tertiary education; 6. To provide directions in the establishment of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing Systems and Operations, as well as oversee and monitor the implementation thereof; 7. To recommend and provide guidelines for Philippine representatives in international and national conferences/meetings with cross-cutting themes or concerns in education; and 8. To lead in the convening of a biennial National Congress in Education involving the three (3) levels for the purpose of assessing, updating/upgrading and strengthening the entire educational system and its components. Section 4. Inter-Agency Assistance and Coordination. - All other departments, bureaus, offices, agencies and instrumentalities of the government, including government-owned or controlled corporations, are hereby directed to cooperate with the Task Force in the performance of its mandate under this Executive Order. Section 5. Rewards. - The members of the Task Force shall be entitled to rewards, incentives and other entitlements as may be provided under existing laws and pertinent rules and regulations. Section 6. Report. - The Task force shall submit its report and proposal to the President not later than twelve (12) months from the start of its function. Section 7. Funding. - The funds for the Task Force shall be drawn from the budget of the PA for Education as specified in Section 12 of EO 273 (Series of 2000) as amended by EO 632, Section 8. Repealing Clause. - All other orders, issuances, rules and regulations, or parts thereof which are inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby repealed or modified accordingly. Section 9. Effectivity. - This Executive Order shall take effect immediately. DONE in the City of Manila, this 21 st day of August, in the year of Our Lord, two thousand and six. By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary 242
271 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Appendix 4-D: Executive Order 652-A MALACAÑANG Manila EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 652-A AMENDING EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 652 (SERIES OF 2007) BY INCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN OF THE PROFESSIONAL REGULATION COMMISSION AS A MEMBER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL TASK FORCE TO ASSESS, PLAN AND MONITOR THE ENTIRE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM. WHEREAS, Executive Order No. 652 (Series of 2007) created the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System; WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Executive Order No. 652 enumerates the composition and organization of the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System, namely: 1. Secretary, Department of Education 2. Chairman, Commission on Higher Education 3. Director General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority 4. Presidential Assistant for Education 5. Five (5) representatives from the private sector to be appointed/designated by the President. WHEREAS, there is a need to synchronize and harmonize the government s educational policies, programs and initiatives becomes all the more urgent given our country s standing in world competitiveness; WHEREAS, such a need makes it imperative to include in the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System, the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC); NOW THEREFORE, I, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the power vested in me by law, do hereby order: Section 1. Amendment. Section 2 of Executive Order No. 652 dated August 21, 2007 is hereby amended to read, as follows: Section 2. Composition and Organization. - The Task Force shall be composed of the following: 1. Secretary, Department of Education 2. Chairman, Commission on Higher Education 3. Director General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority 4. Chairman, Professional Regulation Commission 5. Presidential Assistant for Education 6. Five (5) representatives from the private sector to be appointed/designated by the President Section 2. Repealing Clause. All executive issuances inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby repealed or amended accordingly. Section 3. Effectivity. This Executive Order shall take effect immediately. DONE in the City of Manila, this 25th day of September, in the year of Our Lord, two thousand and seven. By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary 243
272 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 4-E: Executive Order 652-B MALACAÑANG Manila EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 652-B AMENDING FURTHER EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 652 (SERIES OF 2007) BY INCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COORDINATING COUNCIL OF PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (COCOPEA) AS REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE PRIVATE SECTOR TO THE PRESIDENTIAL TASK FORCE TO ASSESS, PLAN AND MONITOR THE ENTIRE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM WHEREAS, Executive Order No. 652 (series of 2007) created the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System; WHEREAS, Section 2 of Executive Order No. 652 enumerates the composition and organization of the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System, namely: 1. Secretary, Department of Education 2. Chairman, Commission of Higher Education 3. Director General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority 4. Presidential Assistant for Education 5. Five (5) representatives from the private sector to be appointed/ designated by the President. WHEREAS, Executive Order No. 652-A, dated September 25, 2007, amended Section 2 of Executive Order No. 652 by including the Chairman of the Professional Regulation Commission as a member of the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System; WHEREAS, the need to synchronize and harmonize the government s educational policies, programs and initiatives becomes all the more urgent given our country s standing in world competitiveness; WHEREAS, such a need makes it imperative to include in the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System, the Chairman of the Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations (COCOPEA) as a representative from the private sector, increasing to six (6) the representatives from the private sector to be appointed/designated by the President; WHEREAS, Section 17, Article VII of the Constitution provides that the President shall have control of all executive departments, bureaus and offices and shall ensure that all laws be faithfully executed; WHEREAS, paragraph 2, Section 31, Chapter 10, Title III, Book III of Executive Order No. 292 grants the President the continuing authority to reorganize the administrative structure of the Office of the President and the power to transfer any function under the Office of the President to any other Department; NOW THEREFORE, I, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the power vested in me by law, do hereby order: Section 1. Amendment. Section 2 of Executive Order No. 652 dated August 21, 2007 is hereby further amended to read as follows: Section 2. Composition and Organization.- The task force shall be composed of the following: 1. Secretary, Department of Education 2. Chairman, Commission of Higher Education 3. Director General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority 4. Chairman, Professional Regulation Commission 5. Presidential Assistant for Education 6. Six (6) representatives from the private sector to be appointed/designated by the President. Section 2. Repealing Clause -- All executive issuances inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby repealed or amended accordingly. Section 3. Effectivity -- This Executive Order shall take effect immediately. Done in the City of Manila, this 18 th day of January, By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary 244
273 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Appendix 4-F: Executive Order 693 MALACAÑANG Manila EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 693 MANDATING THAT HEADS OF GOVERNMENT AGENCIES HAVING THE RANK AND LEVEL OF DEPARTMENT SECRETARY SHALL HENCEFORTH BE ADDRESSED AS SECRETARY OF THEIR AGENCIES WHEREAS, the heads of government agencies are addressed as Chairman, Director-General, Commissioner, and other similar title/designation; WHEREAS, such title/designation enjoys the benefits, privileges and emoluments equivalent to the rank of Secretary as stated in their charters; WHEREAS, in maintaining the highest standard of morale and to observe formality and equity during meetings, affairs and correspondence within the ranks of members of the Presidential family; WHEREAS, Section 17, Article VII of the Constitution provides that the President shall have control of all executive departments, bureaus and offices and shall ensure that all laws be faithfully executed; WHEREAS, paragraph 2, Section 31, Chapter 10, Title III, Book III of Executive Order No. 292 grants the President the continuing authority to reorganize the administrative structure of the Office of the President and the power to transfer any function under the Office of the President to any other Department; NOW, THEREFORE I, GLORIA M. ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by the law, do hereby order: Section 1. Order All heads of Government Agencies having the rank and level of a Department Secretary shall be addressed as Secretary of their agency. Section 2. Repealing Clause All orders, issuances, rules and regulations or parts thereof inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby repealed or modified accordingly. Section 3. Effectivity This Executive Order shall take effect immediately. Done in the City of Manila, this 18 th day of January, By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary 245
274 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Appendix 4-G: Executive Order 694 MALACAÑANG Manila EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 694 ENABLING HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS TO OPT TO LADDERIZE THEIR EDUCATION PROGRAMS WITHOUT NEED FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT FROM THE COMMISSION ON HIGHER EDUCATION AND THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY WHEREAS, the agenda of this administration is to prioritize the creation of six to ten million jobs and the expansion of youth opportunities. WHEREAS, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) are the agencies tasked to ensure the implementation of Executive Order No. 358 TO INSTITUTIONALIZE A LADDERIZED INTERFACE BETWEEN TECHNICAL-VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING (TVET) AND HIGHER EDUCATION (HE). WHEREAS, Section 17, Article VII of the Constitution provides that the President shall have control of all executive departments, bureaus and offices and shall ensure that all laws be faithfully executed; WHEREAS, paragraph 2, Section 31, Chapter 10, Title III, Book III of Executive Order No. 292 grants the President the continuing authority to reorganize the administrative structure of the Office of the President and the power to transfer any function under the Office of the President to any other Department; NOW THEREFORE, I GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested in me by the Constitution, do hereby order the following: Section 1. Order A higher education institution whose programs have been granted Government Recognition by the CHED may opt to ladderize said recognized programs without need for permit either from CHED or TESDA, considering that said ladderization is within the purview of curricular matter, provided that: a. The CHED and TESDA have issued a model curriculum for the program/s to be offered. b. The Higher Education Institution shall submit a copy of the curriculum for each of the proposed ladderized program to CHED and TESDA who shall see to it that the minimum curricular requirements are observed. Section 2. Repealing Clause All orders, issuances, rules and regulations or parts thereof inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby repealed or modified accordingly. Section 3. Effectivity This Executive Order shall take effect immediately. Done in the City of Manila, this 18 th day of January By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary 246
275 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Appendix 5: Executive Summary of the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform (PCER) On December 7, 1998, Executive Order No. 46 created the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform (PCER), with the express mandate to define a budget-feasible program of reform, and identify executive priority policy recommendations and items foe a legislative agenda on education. The report embodies the outputs and main findings of the Commission, and is submitted to the President for appropriate action. The Report is in two parts: part One describes the process by which the nine principal recommendations were arrived at, and explains the background, reform measure, and implementing strategy of each one in detail. Part Two contains the deliberations of the six working committees of the Commission, their principal research findings, and many other recommendations that are presented for consideration and eventual action. The Commission was guided for in its efforts by the mandate as embodied in the Executive Order, by a review of several previous studies and similar undertakings, and by consultations and meetings with various stakeholders. The Commission divided itself into six working committees, each one covering a major area of concern: Financing )FIN), Governance (GOV), Information Technology, Science/Math Education and Other Technologies (ITSMEOT), Medium of Instruction (MOI), Quality Assurance (QA), and Teacher Development and Welfare (TDAW). These working committees invited consultants, undertook necessary research and advocacy, and presented to the Commission I plenary their findings and several sets of recommendations. From the many recommendations presented, the Commission filtered, combined, refined, and finally selected nine specific proposals, which together constitute the PCER Agenda for Reform. Other recommendations are not included in the final Agenda for Reform because they did not have the same urgency or feasibility, or were already in the process of being legislated or implemented. The nine proposals constituting the PCER Agenda for Reform are as follows: Proposal Number 1: Establishment of the National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE) The trifocalization of the education sector into DECS, CHED, and TESDA I 1992 has allowed the education agencies concerned to focus more sharply on their respective mandates. Over time, however, there has been felt a growing need for greater coordination among these agencies, a common approach to trans-subsectoral issues such as assessment mechanism and articulation between levels, and a more harmonized approach to total education planning and resource allocation. Proposal Number 2: Rationalization, within a Moratorium Period, of the Creation and Conversion of State Universities and Colleges State Colleges and Universities represent a significant expenditure of government resources, and it is felt that these resources are not being sufficiently targeted rationally and according to an integrated plan for the principal purposes of guaranteeing needed programs and ensuring access to those capable intellectually but nit financially. Optimizing scarce resources and correcting inequity are the reasons for the need to rationalize SUCs and impose a moratorium on the creation of new ones and conversions of high schools into colleges while such a rationalization plan is being designed and prepared. Proposal Number 3: Reorienting the Premises of Financing Public Higher Education The use of the large allocations of the government budget for public higher education is perceived to be inefficient and inequitable. Budgets are allocated to state colleges and universities on the basis of incremental expenditures, without much regard for the basic rationale for which these institutions were established. Clearly the rationalization of the public higher education system must be based on a system of financing these institutions which reflect meeting student demand, equity of access, and program considerations, as well as greater accountability and efficiency. Proposal Number 4: Establishment of a One-year Pre-baccalaureate System A good deal of debate has taken place in the Philippines about its ten-year basic education cycle, which is the shortest among all the countries in Asia. Although it is not feasible at this time to add an eleventh year, this proposal recommends a one-year period between secondary 247
276 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy education and a tertiary degree program, not only to bring the Philippines at par with other countries, but to ensure readieness of high school graduates for tertiary education, thereby reducing wastage of dropouts and expensive repetitions. Proposal Number 5: Faculty Development at the Tertiary Level The quality of higher education in any institution depends on the quality of its faculty. For this reason the government prescribes that teachers at the tertiary level must have a Masters degree in the field in which they teach. Unfortunately only about one third of college faculty members in the Philippines have this credential. It is the purpose of this proposal to launch a nationwide system using a network of key centers of teacher training to raise the numbers of qualified teachers with Masters degrees from 30% to 70%. Proposal Number 6: Strengthening Teacher Competencies at the Basic Education Level Teachers in the twenty-first century need new and expanded skills besides just knowledge of the subject matter. They need to be empowered in four specific key result areas (KRAs) to meet the demands of the future: ability to teach reading and comprehension, initiative and creativity, training in values education, and a familiarity in, and use of instructional technology. This proposal aims to build on similar past efforts and to provide the country s teachers with these four capabilities, through a program that is in-service, innovative, nationwide, and conducted in a decentralized manner. The pre-services curriculum I Centers for Excellence for Teacher Education may well consider them, too. Proposal Number 7: Expanding the Options for the Medium of Instruction in Grade 1 Through the Use of the Regional Lingua Franca of the Vernacular While re-affirming the Bilingual Education Policy and the improvement in the teaching of English and Filipino, this proposal aims to introduce the use of the regional lingua franca or vernacular as the medium of instruction in Grade One. Studies have shown that his change will make students stay in, rather than drop out of school, learn better, quicker and more permanently, and will in fact be able to use the first language as a bridge to more effective learning in English and Filipino as well as facilitate the development of their cognitive maturity. Proposal Number 8: Establishment of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS) Evaluations and assessments are necessary means to establish the extent to which quality, relevance and other educational goals are being met. This proposal envisions a body that can coordinate and harmonize various existing agencies and efforts in this field, and assume responsibility for educational assessment at all levels (basic education, higher education and technical education and skills development). Proposal Number 9: Establishing Common Standards for Accreditation Per Discipline There are four accrediting agencies operating in the Philippines. For various reasons, the different agencies use different procedures and standards in accrediting specific academic or professional programs. Employers and the public are not always in a position to familiarize themselves with the accrediting groups or their methods and would prefer to see for each profession and discipline common standards regardless of who does the accrediting. This proposal aims to meet that demand. The commission is aware that the above list is not an exhaustive inventory of possible improvements for the Philippine educational system. But the Commission is convinced that they represent a realistic, feasible and manageable agenda for reform that the executive and legislative branches can work on immediately. Should the agenda for reform prove acceptable and implemented, they would bring about a critical mass of reform and change that would significantly improve education in the Philippines. 248
277 Proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress for Education Appendix 6: Highlights of the Congressional Commission on Education Report (EDCOM) What is the state of our education system? The quality of Philippine education is declining continuously. Our elementary and high schools are failing to teach the competence the average citizen needs to become responsible, productive and self-fulfilling. Colleges and technical/vocational schools are not producing the manpower we need to develop our economy. Graduate education is mediocre. It does not generate the research-based knowledge we need to create more jobs and to raise the value of production. What has caused this decline? There are two principal reasons: 1. We are simply not investing enough in our education system. 2. Our education establishment is poorly managed. What can we do to improve this situation? Throwing more money at our education problems won t be good enough even if we could afford to do so. And the truth is that, over the next 5-10 years, Government cannot expect to raise the kind of money we need to finance adequately all levels of education. There s only one thing we can do: We must extract more efficiency and more productivity from both our education budget and our education establishment. What does EDCOM recommend specifically? 1. Stress basic public education elementary and high school because it is all the formal schooling the masses of our people get. Set aside for this constitutional entitlement as much as we can of our available resources in money and talented people. 2. Encourage alternative learning modes, especially for the illiterate. 3. Make the vernacular and Filipino the medium of instruction for basic education. 4. Enlarge and enrich technical/vocational education- for young people whose aptitudes incline in this direction. 5. Restructure the Department of Education to ensure that program focus is clear, resources are allocated rationally, and plans are realistic and attainable. 6. Ensure that only the best and most qualified professionals become teachers and administrators by making the rewards of teaching match its importance as career. 7. Plan and support public and private education together. 8. Make it possible for private industry, workers, teachers, parents and Local Government to plan, deliver and finance education and training. 9. Ensure the children of the poor greater access to all levels of education. 10. Make public college and university education more cost-effective and curricular programs more relevant to the communities they serve. Government support for higher education should go only to priority courses and programs and to poor but deserving students. 11. Find new sources of money including taxes to finance basic education. 249
278 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy I believe that education is the fundamental method of social progress and reform. All reforms which rest simply upon the law, or the threatening of certain penalties, or upon changes in mechanical or outward arrangements, are transitory and futile... But through education society can formulate its own purposes, can organize its own means and resources, and thus shape itself with definiteness and economy in the direction in which it wishes to move... Education thus conceived marks the most perfect and intimate union of science and art conceivable in human experience. -John Dewey 250
279 Part II Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Presidential Task Force for Education Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, Private-Academe, Chairman Sec. Romulo L. Neri, Government, Co-Chairman Sec. Jesli A. Lapus, Government, Member Sec. Augusto L. Syjuco, Government, Member PA Mona D. Valisno, Office of the President, Member Chairman Leonor T. Rosero, Government, Member Amb. Donald G. Dee, Industry Sector, Member Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles, Private-Academe, Member Dr. Victor S. Limlingan, Economic Sector, Member Dr. Jose V. Abueva, Private-Academe, Member Fr. Roderick C. Salazar, Private-Academe, Member
280 
281 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Office of the President of the Philippines Malacañang June 2, 2008 HER EXCELLENCY GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO President of the Philippines Malacañang Palace Manila Dear Madame President: We are pleased to submit our FIRST REPORT on the activities of the Presidential Task Force for Education that was created last August 2007 under E.O We would like to thank you for your continued interest and support in addressing the fundamentals of our educational system, and in our efforts toward better elementary, high school, post-secondary and tertiary education. We are happy and privileged to participate in these important programs on minimizing poverty, providing jobs and increasing our country s overall competitiveness. The Presidential Task Force on Education hopes to contribute to the realization of these programs; particularly in addressing what Nobelprize winning economist Amartya Sen has called the poverty of capability. His studies indicate that poverty is not just a lack of opportunity and resources, but also in great part a lack of capability. He says that central to building capability are education, health services and reasonable access to credit. We are privileged to be part of the Task Force that can directly enable capability building via education. The First Biennial National Congress on Education held last January 31 to February 1, 2008 engaged various education stakeholders from all over the country in seven (7) workshops. The results of the workshop and plenary discussions yielded valuable inputs for strengthening capabilities that will ultimately result in a higher quality educational system, faculty, administrators, related government departments / agencies, and above all, quality students and graduates. 253
282 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The critical objectives of the Task Force are to strengthen key mediating educational institutions, facilitate cross-functional initiatives and focus efforts towards our vision of building capabilities and preparing our people for jobs and entrepreneurship. This report tackles the action taken by the Task Force and the educational sectors as we move along the Main Education Highway. The report also includes some discussion on the organization and processes needed to facilitate the achievement of our goals. 1. BASIC EDUCATION All recommendations and proposed interventions should be within the context of the Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda (BESRA) framework Interventions at the Pre-School Level: DepEd is set to implement the E.O. 685 on the Standardization of the Pre-school curriculum for five-year old pupils. The intent of E.O. 685 is to better prepare children for entrance to Grade 1 by teaching them the basics of reading, writing and arithmetic. The following steps are being undertaken by the Task Force: generate a data base of existing barangay/dswd day-care centers and pre-schools hold consultative conferences or dialogues with the local government units, DSWD and other stakeholders to develop specific implementation guidelines map out concrete assistance for these barangay/dswd day-care centers by identifying organizations and stakeholders who can provide the needed assistance for specific pre-schools or clusters of pre-schools / day care centers DepEd shall provide academic supervision for the pre-school programs for 5-year olds of the day-care centers that will be operated by the DSWD and the LGU. Some of their activities are as follows: conduct an inventory of good pre-school educational materials that can be provided to the day-care centers / pre-schools by interested stakeholders prepare materials using the lingua franca for pre-school education conduct training for pre-school /day-care in charge and distribute instructional materials. 254
283 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Training of day care center workers handling 5-year olds. The 3-day training aims to orient workers on curriculum standards for 5-year olds and equip these workers with learning approaches and strategies Interventions at the Elementary School and High School levels: The lingua franca or vernacular is now being used for grade one as a bridge for a more effective learning of English, Math, and Science DepEd is expanding in-service training of teachers focusing on English, especially for those who were not trained under the new curriculum with 24 units of English As a result of the consultation with school administrators in Baguio City last December 31, 2007, P1.0 billion was released for teacher training in English, Math and Science, in areas not previously covered. The fund release will also cover the production of Teacher Guides and other instructional materials The in-service training using the recently completed English Lesson Guides for teaching English was conducted this summer 2008 for 1,995 teachers representing 1,995 lowest performing schools in English in the country. Baguio - April participants Cebu - April 28 - May participants Cotabato - May participants Sorsogon - May participants Davao/Zamboanga - May participants Each participant was given 1 complete set of Lesson Guides (Grades 1-6) for the school. Bigger schools were given more sets. Feedback from this in-service training is the desire of principals and teachers from other public schools to have copies of Lesson Guides for both English and Mathematics One critical objective for elementary education is to improve the participation and retention rates for students. To achieve this objective, it is important to recognize the role of the school principal, the involvement of the community and the importance of collaborating with local governments. The interventions considered the following DepEd findings: 255
284 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy There are around 2.2 million children who were not able to go to elementary school in despite the fact that basic education is free. This represents 17% of 13.2 million children aged 6 to 11. The highest non-participation rate is in the 6 year old category at 53%. There may be a need to study the entry age of 6 for Grade 1 for certain areas in the Philippines. Non-participation rate still remains quite high for 7-year olds at 18%. The non-participation for ages 8 to 11 hovers at 6% to 7% The following were identified as common reasons for not going to school: Lack of money for lunch, class contributions, school projects and school uniforms Peer influence Lack of interest in the lessons Family problems Taking care of siblings Living far from school (mainly in rural areas) Illness Fear of teacher Recommendations are as follows: Continue expansion of pre-school for 5 year olds to increase probability of their enrolling in Grade I when they turn 6 years of age In SY , only 63% of grade I pupils have early childhood experience. The Lack of early childhood education affects the readiness of the child to enter school Strict enforcement of the no collection policy Step up advocacy on School Enrolment in coordination with LGUs, media, NGOs, religious sector and others Some LGUs provide school children with uniforms, shoes, school bags and school supplies, transportation service Other sectors provide free snacks or meals. 256
285 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Passage of anti-truancy policy/ordinance at the local level and legislation at national level Expansion of Alternative Delivery Modes for children who are in difficult or are in different situations in life. Examples of these are: The Modified In-School, Off-School Approach (MISOSA) for elementary, Effective Alternative Secondary Education (EASE) for high school learners, Balik Paaralan para sa Out-of-School Adults (BP-OSA), and Instructions Managed by Parents, Communities and Teachers (IMPACT) Improve the implementation process for the Conditional Cash Transfer to poor families and strictly monitor school attendance of children Support the Ahon Pamilyang Pilipino Program which provides monthly grants to poor households and food subsidy in the form of rice ration for a definite period of time The selection of beneficiary families shall include more poverty-stricken households Further scale-up the Food for School Program to reach out to more food insecure areas. DepEd is now improving the selection of target recipients to ensure that the number of under-nourished learners in the schools will be reduced Another critical objective is raising school performance. The following action programs will facilitate the achievement of the above objective: Systematically conduct training programs for school administrators to widen their horizons, renew their sense of passion and commitment, and capacitate them to effectively perform their functions. To date, the following training programs were conducted: School Based Management 257
286 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Formulation of School Improvement Plan for primary and secondary school administrators Instructional Leadership Self Management Presentation Skills Learning Management Program (LMP) for secondary school administrators Teacher training programs are continuously conducted. By 2010, the goal is for all high school teachers to be specialists in the subjects they teach. Certificate Program for non-specialist teachers in Science and Mathematics Certificate Program for non-specialist teachers in Social Studies, Pilipino, Music, Arts, P.E., and Health, Technology & Livelihood Education Systematically organize dialogues between DepEd and local government executives. One such program is the DepEd-STRIVE and Synergeia Summit to raise awareness of local executives on the challenges confronting basic education. (STRIVE Strengthening the Implementation of Basic Education in the Visayas) generate a data base of success stories in order to create a pool of resource persons for these empowerment programs and dialogues begin a systematic review of the National Achievement Test and the Division Achievement Test and related practices in measuring student achievement begin a systematic review of the National Career Assessment Examination (NCAE) to revisit its purpose and evaluate its implementation Local and targeted solutions are more helpful than one-size fits all approaches. It is, thus, important to agree on Guiding Strategies that are general enough to guide specific interventions and programs in the local communities. Such Guiding Strategies include: 258
287 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Recognizing the important and crucial role of the school principal and the community in school development efforts Prioritizing the basic needs (e.g. classrooms, books, Lesson Guides for Teachers) over other interventions (e.g. technology, extra-curricular activities like Ms. Bagong Ilog, etc.) Setting appropriate metrics to monitor the attainment of goals, following-through and tracking developments (specific scores versus district-wide or division/regional/national averages, financial allocation and utilization) Listening to input of people out in the field and taking advantage of the competence of master elementary and high school master teachers. Collaborating closely with local governments The Guiding Strategies shall help realize goals on a large and integrated scale, even as the different agencies and organizations have their respective mandates and specific focus. Thus, the following action items are being undertaken to promote this concept continue to generate and monitor data on the performance of schools in the NAT/DAT and other indicators over the past three years to serve as basis for clustering schools into categories to help identify concrete interventions for each cluster. This will serve as a clear guide for various agencies and organizations in identifying or supporting concrete interventions intensify the involvement of all organizations doing work towards the development of public basic education; and identify concrete steps that can be taken to orient everyone on the Guiding Strategies and promote synergy among them Madrasah Education in the Philippines The Madrasah Education Program was created to address the needs of the Muslim learners for quality basic education in public schools One of the provisions under the 1996 Final Peace Agreement is the development and strengthening of Madrasah Education A Roadmap was developed to upgrade basic education in ARMM and mainstream Madrasah Education as a component of the basic education in the Philippines. The components of the roadmap fall under three categories: 259
288 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 260 Madrasah Education Program for the Public Schools Madrasah Education Program in the Private Madaris Madrasah Education Program for Muslim Out-of-School Youth and Adults 1.3. In order to address the present problem of physical facilities, the Task Force adopted the following: In many places, instead of building more public high schools, the construction of additional public school classrooms may be more practical The construction of public high schools shall be done only in areas where there are no private high schools available or where the high school scholarships for private schools through the voucher system and the GASTPE have been maximized An alternative to building high schools or classrooms is granting more scholarships to private high schools. To date, around 600,000 high school students are enrolled in private schools because of the GASTPE. 2. POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION 2.1. In the Main Education Highway, the end goal is to be able to prepare our students to compete for employment or entrepreneurship opportunities. The vocational / technical education and higher education serve as the vehicles that will facilitate learning to enable the students to survive and succeed in our competitive world The Task Force discussed options presented by TESDA towards the rationalization and harmonization of post-secondary education. While all the options are possible, we will need to establish a system and a process for establishing academic equivalencies The different options can then be implemented once the system for equivalencies has been put into place Academe-Industry Linkages A major consideration for the post-secondary level is the responsiveness of their courses and curricula to the needs of industry. A working group continues to meet regularly to plan, monitor and implement programs to strengthen academe-industry tie-ups. The industry sector is meeting its member companies to polish their manpower demand figures; and the academe is meeting to discuss bridging programs and redesigning
289 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps their courseware The Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI), the Employers Confederation of the Philippines (ECOP) and the U-ACT (Universal Access to Competitiveness and Trade led by Ambassador Donald G. Dee are meeting regularly to finalize the human resources forecasts for the short- and medium-term. The number and specific type of employees, as well as needed skill sets, will be determined by member-companies, and given as inputs to the academe PCCI identified nine pilot industry sectors and assigned industry champions to the following: Business Process Outsourcing Tourism and Hospitality Services (including Education Tourism and Medical Tourism) Electronics Engineering (including Agricultural Engineering Education) Construction Maritime Ship Building Health Care Wholesale and Retail The above organizations will pioneer the implementation of an HR data-base called the S.T.O.R.E. (School to Office Response to Employment). The Program identifies manpower forecasts per industry and per company; tracks job openings and skills requirements, academic qualifications and training required; and matches these with educational institutions that provide the supply of manpower to the companies. Both the industry associations and academic institutions are linked by a common database that allows information sharing on job vacancies and qualifications required for certain positions in participating member companies The fastest growing industry at present is Business Process Outsourcing. This sector is targeting to capture 10% of the world market translating to close to one million jobs based in the Philippines by Since the job requirements for the BPO sector includes proficiency in English, it is 261
290 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy imperative that the educational sector connect with this industry to ensure that we can prepare graduates who can communicate with the world The Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations (COCOPEA) and the Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities (PACU) completed a pilot project with the Business Processing Association, Philippines (BPA/P) on Advanced English Proficiency Training (ADEPT) The objective of the program was to dramatically raise the level of English proficiency of college graduates, leading to increased employment levels in contact centers and other O&O sectors. The program leveraged on existing assessment and training modules used by BPA/P member firms and/or COCOPEA member schools The pilot program was launched during the 2nd semester of school year involving 5 pilot partnerships (school + contact center). The participating schools were UE, JRU, Emilio Aguinaldo College, PWU and DLSU Dasmariñas. The participating contact centers were ICT, epldt, etelecare, Convergys and Teletech. The ADEPT class was offered as a free-elective to graduating students Based on the assessment of the pilot program by BPA/P and the participating schools and contact centers, a full-scale program is being prepared. Several activities are underway, among which are: 262 Finalization of the design of the student evaluation tool to determine what level he/she is in English proficiency. Finalization of the courseware (curriculum and modules) for the ADEPT Finalization of the first batch of schools that will implement the ADEPT program. Identification / assessment of teachers who will handle the ADEPT program in participating schools. Teacher training on content, process and learning methodologies Marketing and promotions program for attracting students to the program Future incentives for students and teachers, as needed
291 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps The APC Center of Asia Pacific College conducted a pilot training program on teaching and assessment methods last May 26 to 30, Around 40 English teachers / professors mainly from the Metro Manila area participated in the workshop The target roll-out date of the ADEPT program will be in October CHED recognizes the importance of the ADEPT program. Higher educational institutions have the prerogative to adopt the program within their existing approved curricula The challenge for academe and industry is scaling up and marketing this program to schools and students to ensure that there will be enough supply of qualified employees to meet their target of one million BPO jobs by The effective promotion and implementation of the program to schools and universities require funding. A budget must be set and funding sources shall be identified Aside from English proficiency skills, COCOPEA is presently discussing interventions to develop the students skills in communication, critical thinking and initiative-taking. They are working with the People Management Association of the Philippines (PMAP) on a program design that can be adopted by colleges and universities, and that can be integrated in their existing curricula for first and second year college students. This will increase the competitiveness of graduates in the domestic and international job market There are immediate interventions that are being undertaken to address the current shortage of qualified labor in the BPO market. TESDA is working closely with the Business Processing Association, Philippines (BPA/P) in co-managing the P350 million subsidy for training near-hires that are identified by BPO companies This fund is part of the P1.0 billion pesos PGMA Training for Work Scholarship program BPA/P estimates that the P350 million subsidy will benefit some 50,000 trainees in 2008, mainly for call centers (voice), software applications, animation and medical transcription TESDA is also working with schools and training institutions by providing the PGMA-TWSP vouchers intended to develop skills required by industry, such as hotel and restaurant operations, welding, construction, and caregiving, among others. 263
292 < The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 2.3. The development of technical / professional talent was also identified as a priority area by the Task Force in order to give our country a sustainable competitive advantage. In recognition of the need of some students to seek employment even before graduation from college, there is a need to equip them with skills that can land them jobs even as undergraduates. With this in mind, the ladderization of degree courses was proposed by CHED and TESDA Higher education institutions can now ladderize their degree programs without the need to secure a permit from CHED or TESDA, by virtue of E.O. 694, on programs that have been previously recognized by CHED and with a promulgated model curriculum CHED and TESDA are reviewing implementation issues particularly in relation to the capability of schools to provide the required faculty, facilities and equipment that are necessary for quality education, even for ladderized programs. The MOA and IRR are being drafted On a 12-year basic education curriculum The concern that we have only a 10-year basic education curriculum compared to the 12-year international standard was brought up because the credentials of our professionals are not accepted in some countries The Task Force recognizes the economic, administrative, operating and development implications / constraints of moving into a 12-year basic education curriculum A more realistic and achievable approach for now is to work on how we can get our professional degree programs recognized by other countries Bilateral agreements with identified countries may be one solution. This will also enable us to tailor-fit the agreements according to the specific requirements of each identified country There is a need to look into different options to ensure acceptability of our professional degrees regionally and internationally. This concern is particularly crucial in professions such as in the fields of Accounting, Engineering, Medicine, etc. The goal is to eliminate any bias because of the number of years of education A benchmark survey / study per region or country shall be conducted where specific country requirements for recognition can be identified. 264
293 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 2.5. One area that needs attention is the development of skills in the agricultural sector. CHED presented to the PTFE a two-part proposal on Mobilizing State Universities and Colleges for Food Production and Increasing the Skills and Number of Agricultural Graduates and Extension Workers Food production and self-sufficiency comes into focus because of the present shortage in rice and the rising cost of agricultural input and distribution caused by increasing oil prices Aside from issues around policies, supply/demand and cost/prices, human capital is also a key factor SUCs can be mobilized to achieve higher productivity in the agricultural sector: SUCs have a mandate to do research and extension services, and has close linkages to the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Science and Technology and with Local Government Units The human and physical resources present in the SUCs could be leveraged towards food production and capability building The SUCs and the DA are presently in talks on how the SUCs can help with research and urgent extension work, given DA funding CHED, however, noted the decline in the number of college students enrolled in Agriculture and related courses, from 94,000 in 2002 to 63,399 in Possible strategies to arrest the decline and increase enrolment include providing scholarships, and immersing students in supervised farming, earn-while-you-learn and agri-business incubation programs. These strategies were already discussed with the SUCs in the meeting of SUC presidents with President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo The Task Force recognizes that the key and the challenge to increasing enrolment in Agriculture and related courses are finding ways to ensure good jobs upon graduation. 3. QUALITY EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM 3.1. CHED has started to coordinate with local government colleges and universities in terms of their compliance with CHED s minimum program standards, as well as to ensure that they offer job-related 265
294 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy courses, especially those that will address community manpower requirements Only non-accredited private schools are now subjected to the Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation (IQUAME) of CHED based on E.O Programs accredited by any of the five accrediting agencies shall be exempted from IQUAME with the issuance of E.O. 705-A Technical / Vocational schools and courses should also undergo accreditation. A search for an appropriate system has to be done CHED has started to build an information database on profiles of higher education institutions to guide parents and students in their selection of schools to attend. The input of PRC shall be included in the school profiles CHED will post information from PRC after they have undertaken steps agreed upon with PRC to ensure accuracy of data CHED and PRC have agreed to coordinate closely with industry on standards setting and content for courses that require licensure examinations to ensure alignment with the technical and scientific requirements of business and industry. PRC will also look into upgrading its examination system for all professions and into updating licensure examinations to respond to the continuing rapid changes in the practice of the professions On Strengthening Capabilities in Educational Evaluation and Testing This should start with strengthening university programs in educational assessment and to produce core leaders trained locally and abroad who can spearhead the eventual establishment of a stronger National Educational Evaluation and Testing System It is important to invest in developing a pool of experts in modern methods of educational assessment, as these have changed immensely in the past decades. The recommendation is to provide scholarships for studies abroad, together with developing strong local Masters and PhD programs in educational assessment Future testing instruments may be benchmarked with those in the United States, in Canada, in UK, in Australia, in Singapore and in Hong Kong. 266
295 < Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 4. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO STUDENTS 4.1. CHED is working on a proposal for a student loan program or A Contributions-based Education Loan Program. This program enables members of GSIS, SSS and Pag-ibig Fund to borrow against contributions made, for education purposes, under preferential terms. Comments and inputs from GSIS, SSS and Pag-IBIG Fund are being solicited to ensure that the program will be viable and implementable The program has advantages over previous ones in that: It taps into contributions already made; and no other government appropriation for a student loan fund is necessary. It builds on existing systems and procedures of Government Funding Institutions (GFIs) for processing, tracking and collecting loan payments. There is no need to set up another entity or group for these operations. The loans are effectively secured by contributions made by members-followers. There is no need to involve other government agencies (e.g. NBI, BID, BIR) in enforcing collections The following make it an attractive alternative: Available funding is huge. These are secured loans. High collection rates are expected. It is simple and can be rolled-out quickly On the other hand, there are issues that need to be addressed. The legal basis for this program needs to be established. There may be a need to closely review the mandates of the GFIs under relevant legislation and implementing rules. The GFIs may encounter difficulty in integrating / rationalizing this program with other similar education loan programs that they are already implementing. The GFIs may have to review their loan portfolio and priority loan programs. 267
296 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The GFIs may have to review their policies to accommodate preferential terms. 5. ON THE CHED ADVISORY COUNCIL AND TEACHER EDUCATION COUNCIL 5.1. The Advisory Council under R.A. 7722, Sec. 7 Board of Advisers of CHED Law was created to harmonize and synchronize policies and plans with the cultural, political and socioeconomic development needs of the nation and with the demands of world-class scholarship. The Advisory Council is chaired by the Secretary of Education. Other ex-officio members include the Director-General of NEDA, as co-chairman; the Secretary of DOST; the Secretary of DTI; the Secretary of DOLE (for TESDA as Alternate Chair of the TESDA Board); the President of FAAP (FAAP); and the President of the Fund for Assistance to Private Education (FAPE); two other members were appointed by the the President of the Philippines in 2004 as provided for in the Law (Mr. Washington Sycip, representing the Industry Sector and PA Mona D. Valisno, representing the Office of the President) The Task Force recommends Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres and Amb. Donald Dee to sit as additional members of the Board of Advisers, representing private education and industry, respectively The Teacher Education Council, created under R.A An Act to Strengthen Teacher Education in the Philippines is one mechanism where Basic Education and Teacher Education can be effectively harmonized. The Council is Ex-officio Chaired by the Secretary of Education and is composed of three (3) other ex officio members, namely: a Commissioner of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), a representative of the National Commission on Culture and Arts (NCCA), and the Chairman of the Professional Regulations Commission (PRC) The seven (7) regular members of the Council who shall be appointed by the President of the Republic of the Philippines are: Three (3) representatives of centers of teacher education: one (1) from Luzon, one (1) from the Visayas, and one (1) from Mindanao who shall take into account the views of the parents-teachers and community associations, student associations, nongovernmental organizations, and people organizations concerned with basic education; 268
297 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps One (1) representative of science teachers; One (1) representative of mathematics teachers; One (1) representative of social studies teachers; and One (1) representative of language teachers The Task Force is recommending the issuance of an E.O. on the inclusion of TESDA as a regular member of the Teacher Education Council. The Task Force shall continue to fulfill its mandate under E.O. 652 and serve its functions effectively, among which is to assess, plan, and monitor the entire educational system using the Main Education Highway as its reference framework. Together with the three education agencies and other education stakeholders, the Task Force shall also draw up an education agenda that may be used as a guide by government representatives when attending international conferences/workshops on education. THE PRESIDENTIAL TASK FORCE FOR EDUCATION Oath-taking, 13 September 2007 Rizal Hall, Malacañan Palace 269
298 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy The Presidential Task Force for Education Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J., Chairman President, Ateneo de Manila University Secretary Romulo L. Neri, Co-Chairman Chairman, Commission on Higher Education Secretary Jesli A. Lapus, Member Secretary, Department of Education Secretary Augusto L. Syjuco, Member Director-General, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority Undersecretary Mona D. Valisno, Member Presidential Assistant for Education Chairman Leonor T. Rosero, Member Professional Regulation Commission Ambassador Donald G. Dee, Industry Sector Special Envoy of the President on Trade Negotiations Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles, Member Chancellor, Angeles University Foundation Dr. Jose V. Abueva, Member President, Kalayaan College Dr. Victor S. Limlingan, Economic Sector Chairman, Gua-Gua National College, Inc. Fr. Roderick C. Salazar, Jr. S.V.D., Member President, Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations (COCOPEA) 270
299 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Chapter 3: Rolling Up Our Sleeves: Into Implementation Mode We think that the Philippine educational system has had all the national surveys it needs. We have had one survey, on the average, every 11 to 13 years. We must now put a stop to massive national surveys. The EDCOM survey should be the last, at least for the next half century. (Gonzales, Bro. Andrew, 1998) I MPROVING EDUCATION is the simple bargain at the heart of every Filipino Dream, as it opens the doors for every citizen who takes the responsibility to make the most of it. This bargain is the great source of Filipino strength, because it unleashes the amazing talent and determination of our people. And as our people seize the opportunity to build a better life, they also build a stronger Philippines. Today, tomorrow, and during the next generations as well, Filipinos will be competing with workers in every continent. Improved education is the essential key to a stronger Philippines on account of the advancement in technology which offers fast information flow across oceans and the availability of highwage employment that are ever more dependent on high-level skills. Above all, improved education will offer the Philippines a chance to become a knowledgebased economy in the Asia-Pacific Region. This sets the tone for the Post Congress Agenda of the Presidential Task Force for Education for the next two years (2009 and 2010) and beyond a legacy for the Filipino people. 271
300 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy THE MANDATE OF THE PRESIDENTIAL TASK FORCE FOR EDUCATION Executive Order (E.O.) 652, which created the Presidential Task Force for Education (PTFE), is a bold step to steer the vision of the Philippine Main Education Highway. Equally, the PTFE s formation is critical to the realization of the designed harmonization and synchronization of the trifocalized education system. In order to accomplish these aspirations, the mandate of the PTFE are: To design a mechanism for the holding of regular fora on trans-subsectoral consultations intended for cross-cutting policies and programs; To identify strategies which will dovetail the goals and objectives of the education system, especially tertiary education, toward national development plans; To review existing and proposed programs from the three (3) education agencies of government and other government agencies with education programs in order to promote tighter inter-subsector coordination; To provide guidelines on setting priorities for the education system, especially tertiary education, and recommend the corresponding financial requirements; To design the monitoring scheme for the implementation of reforms proposed by the Philippine Commission on Educational Reform (PCER); as updated by the Medium Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP) of the Arroyo Administration, especially on tertiary education; To provide directions for the establishment of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing Systems and Operations, as well as oversee and monitor its implementation; To recommend and provide guidelines for Philippine representatives attending international and national conferences/meetings with cross-cutting themes or concerns in education; and To lead in the convening of a Biennial National Congress in Education involving the three (3) levels of the Philippine Education system, for the purpose of assessing, updating/upgrading and strengthening the entire educational system and its components. THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ASSISTANT FOR EDUCATION In 2007, the National Coordinating Council for Education (NCEE) was abolished by E.O As a result, its the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education (OPAE) was assigned to assume its duties. With the creation of the 272
301 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Figure 13: Philippine Main Education Highway Philippine Main Education Highway VISION Every Filipino child is assured of the opportunity to get high quality education that will make him or her a whole person, a responsible citizen, and lead him or her to a productive, well-paying job, or to a successful entrepreneurial venture. 273
302 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy PTFE, the OPAE now functions as a strategic co-actor of education agencies and other stakeholders. Essentially, the role of the OPAE is to assess, plan, and monitor the entire educational system, specifically through the following functions: To serve as the regular forum for trans-subsectoral consultations on cross-cutting policies and programs; To harmonize goals and objectives of the entire education system and to dovetail them with national development plans; To review existing and proposed programs and projects for tighter inter-subsector coordination; To set priorities for the education system and recommend corresponding financial requirements; To pursue and monitor implementation of the reforms proposed by the PCER; To establish, oversee, and monitor the implementation of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS) and its operations; To designate and provide guidelines for Philippine representatives in international and national conferences/meetings with cross-cutting themes or concerns in education; and To convene a Biennial National Congress on Education for the purpose of assessing, updating/upgrading and strengthening of the educational system and its components. BRIEFLY LOOKING BACK: AN OVERVIEW OF THE POLICIES AND PROGRAMS TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF PHILIPPINE EDUCATTION The educational system of the Philippines is probably the most studied system in any country in the world today. This sector has been continuously studied for the last nine decades, most recently by the PCER in Findings and recommendations of the studies have been recurrent, underscoring age-old problems such as low functional literacy, high drop-out rates, deteriorating quality, low teacher competency, and limited financing, among others. Language has in fact been identified as a problem area since the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) survey in Each time, surveys have recognized the need to produce a workforce that is trained, competent and developed through education, particularly by gaining access to quality tertiary education. 274
303 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Essentially, the role by which education is successful in contributing to national progress and modernization is dependent mainly on the educational agenda and procedures delivered by the government. Experience in the past two decades shows, that the Philippine education system has been producing graduates whose competencies, in most cases, are not acceptable in existing labor market demands and standards. Evidently, there is a prevalent and consistent problem on the mismatch between graduates professional preparation and the requirements of a job. Moreover, there are over-subscribed courses in relation to the required demand from the industries. Even government regulations designed to curtail the declining quality of college education were not enough to stop the perpetually increasing number of ill-equipped graduates. Worse still, a system of double standards exempts state colleges and universities from the rigorous requirements imposed on private institutions of higher learning. In either the state or private sector, there is virtually no monitoring mechanism of the educative process. The only way to find out whether a school delivers quality service to its clients is to subject its graduates to government licensure examinations where such are available. By then, it would be too late to improve our graduates (Valisno, Mona, 1994). With all the surveys and studies that the education system has gone through, all that is needed is to roll-up our sleeves and act upon the results of the massive surveys done in the past. What is needed is our decisive action to arrest our deteriorating educational standards. Our rapidly growing population impinges heavily on the economic resources of the government, while our higher education is on trial as college diplomas have become devalued due to the continuing shrinkage of standards and quality (Sta. Maria, Felixberto, 1994). What is needed is a drastic reform to turn the tide in our favor. Under the present administration, Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, having seen the recurring dilemma of the educational system, ordered the creation of a task force to once and for all implement the reform measures, as well as, assess, monitor, evaluate and harmonize the entire educational system. Long before the formation of the PTFE in September 2007, the members appointed by the President were already sufficiently aware of the constraints and challenges faced by our education sector, particularly as these relate to the need to respond to the ever transforming local and global economic orders. Hence, the members of the PTFE, true to their mandated mission and functions, have started on the right foot by rolling up their sleeves and positioning their selves in implementation mode. They expect to provide the direction and the strategic implementation scheme in order to achieve the goal 275
304 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy of a zero drop-out rate. Additionally, they have set their sights in finding ways of providing Filipinos gainful employment and entrepreneurial ventures which offer maximum returns on their investment. As a harmonizing body, the PTFE is now creating the roadmap needed to implement the necessary educational reforms. These reforms, which are in the form of policy recommendations, have corresponding action plans and a monitoring and evaluation (M & E) scheme which uses the Philippine Main Education Highway as the framework to achieve a Knowledge-based Economy. 1. Basic Education Pre-School It is always desirable to enter the education system on the right foot. RA 9155 clearly defines Basic Education and the different school levels. Early childhood education (ECE) is the first crucial step in enhancing pupil learning and school retention, especially in the early grades of elementary education. Studies have shown that children who have gone through ECE are less inclined to drop out of school, have lesser tardiness and absenteeism, and participate more actively in school activities. (Medium Term Philippines Development Plan-National Economic and Development Authority /MTPDP-NEDA, ) On July 26, 2005, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in her State of the Nation s address declared that We need to start early and we need to maintain the highest educational standards. I ask Congress to legislate an extra year of studies not by adding a fifth year of high school but by standardizing what is taught in the Barangay Day Care Centers. As a result of this proclamation, the National Pre-School Education Program was conceived. Ordinarily, young Filipino children get their first formal lessons in day-care centers that are usually set up and maintained by local government units (LGU) in coordination with the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD). With the conception of the program, day-care centers which cater to five-year old children should now be transformed into pre-schools and adopted as part of the Philippine formal education system or the Main Education Highway. The National Pre-School Education Program aims to ensure that all five-year old children have access to quality pre-school education. Specifically, it aims to expand access and coverage to all five-year old children, initially
305 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps focusing on the poorest and disadvantaged; and upgrade the quality of pre-school education to ensure that children are ready for school by integrating health and nutrition components such as weighing, de-worming and supplemental feeding. Moreover, the program aspires to reach all five-year olds by transforming the existing day-care centers into pre-schools and opening new pre-schools in areas with no day-care centers and public pre-school classes with the goal of adopting these as part of the Philippine formal education system or the Main Education Highway. With the active support of all stakeholders, especially the Local Government Units (LGUs), parents, community, business, industry and other key players, an effective pre-school education program can raise achievement level, increase retention rate, and fully implement a retrieval program to dramatically reduce drop-outs in later years. The Department of Education (DepEd) is at the initial stage of implementing E.O. 685 on the standardization of the pre-school curriculum for five-year old pupils and assume the supervision of these day-care centers from the DSWD and LGUs. Thus, the pre-school program for five-year old children shall serve as an additional year (10+1) to basic education. Ultimately, the support of LGUs will have a pivotal role in the operations of pre-school and the entire basic education level. This support should be maintained to complement the efforts of the national government in providing this basic service to young Filipinos Management, Supervision and Coordination of Pre-Schools Pre-School programs are covered by RA 8980 or the Early Childhood Care and Development (ECCD) Act. The ECCD espouses the establishment and institutionalization of a National System for Early Childhood Care and Development. This system is designed to be comprehensive, integrative and sustainable. Its focus is on children s development according to their individual physical needs and socio-cultural background. The ECCD functions through multi-sectoral and inter-agency cooperation on both local and national levels. E.O. 249 established the Council for the Welfare of Children National ECCD Coordinating Council as the institutional machinery that coordinates the implementation of the early childhood education program and ensuring collaboration among DSWD, DepEd, Department of Health (DOH), Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO), and LGUs. UNESCO PROAP (2004) reports that there is a public day-care centre in virtually every village of the country. The findings show that there are 41,924 villages in the country; as of 2000, there were 32, 787 day-care centers, where a 277
306 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy few villages may have more than one; in 1998, 26.7 percent of the villages did not have access to any such programs. Moreover, the study revealed that there are more day-care centers and community-based ECCD programs in urban areas than in rural areas. Although there are quite a number of public day-care centers and NGO-run or church-affiliated community-based ECCD programs in remote rural villages, including those populated with indigenous cultural groups, they are few in comparison to the number of centre-based programs in urban areas. In addition, these centers are certainly inadequate, bearing in mind the size of the rural young child population. At the national level, the DSWD is the agency responsible for overall policy and program development. This is done by setting and promoting guidelines and standards, providing technical assistance to the local government units through the regional field offices, monitoring and evaluating. On the other hand, the DepEd s role is to determine the standards for the curriculum, fill staff requirements, maintain physical facilities for the operation of preschools and set the requirements for registration Areas for National Policy and Program Reforms The most recent national policies and reforms issuances support the strengthening of the implementation of the objectives of the National ECCD programs. This is done particularly through the following means: providing a smooth transition between at-home care and pre or primary schools, through the formalization of a bridging program for entrants to primary school; improving the quality of public and private ECCD programs through registration and accreditation programs; and promoting ECCD programs through the establishment of linkages between LGUs, DOH, DepEd, and DSWD, with the addition of the appointment of an early childhood development official in every city to coordinate and supervise all these activities. There are four modalities through which ECCD services are delivered: day care centers, homes, pre-schools and health centers or clinics. Reforms are more focused on the on-school-based ECCD. This is due to the fact that most pre-schools are located in highly urbanized areas and cater mainly to the higher income groups; thus, many entrants to first grade of elementary in the rural areas manifest significant adjustment and learning gaps which are attributable to the lack of exposure to pre-school education Improving Pre-School Teachers Pre-school teachers, commonly referred to day-care workers, are the primary service providers in the public day-care system. These personnel are
307 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps mostly recruited from within the local community, since residence near the school one of the basic requirements of the job. The DepEd, prescribes the following qualifications and profile for pre-school teachers, as stated in E.O. 107s (1989): a Bachelor of Science degree with specialization in Early Childhood or Kindergarten Education, Family Life and Child Development or Elementary Education with at least 18 units in ECCD or an allied non-education college degree with at least 18 units of ECCD; male or female, between the ages of 21-35; training, experience and interest in working with young children; and certified to be physically and emotionally fit. With the issuance of E.O. 685, existing day care center workers shall receive training from the DepEd on the curriculum and competencies for pre-school education. In addition, they will be furnished with the necessary instructional materials needed to be effective educators The Medium of Instruction and A Standard Curriculum Many studies have shown that young children who are introduced to learning using the vernacular or lingua franca tend to stay in school, rather than drop out, and learn better and quicker. They are able to use the vernacular as a bridge to more effective learning in English and Filipino, as well as facilitate the development of their cognitive maturity. The use of the vernacular for one to two years, starting from the pre-school level up to first grade should now be implemented nationwide. The goal now is to strengthen the current programs implemented in day care centers and pre-schools and develop them into a more formal and effective curriculum. Thus, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, has ordered the drafting of an E.O. transferring the supervision over day care centers or the Early Childhood Development Program from DSWD to LGUs to DepEd. This aims to standardize the pre-school and catch the five-year olds to be part of this curriculum. It has also been proposed that the present BS Education practicum may allot hours for pre-school and day care center training. In addition, ROTC or NSTP students may help in teaching in day care centers. Miriam College Foundation and the Ateneo de Manila University, which already conducted its experiment on the pre-school curriculum, may help in the implementation. DepEd shall work together with the local school boards and LGUs in integrating pre-school or day-care centers into the basic education program. LGUs shall also continue its support to the Early Childhood Development Program in the form of basic infrastructure, provision of facilities, materials 279
308 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy and equipment, and compensation to the providers DepEd is set to implement E.O. 685 on the Standardization of the pre-school curriculum for five-year old pupils. The intent of this E.O. is to better prepare children for entrance to Grade One by teaching them the basics of reading, writing and arithmetic. The following steps are being undertaken by the Task Force: Generate a data base of existing barangay or DSWD day-care centers and pre-schools. Hold consultative conferences or dialogues with LGUs, DSWD and other stakeholders to develop specific implementation guidelines. Map out concrete assistance for these barangay or DSWD day-care centers by identifying organizations and stakeholders who can provide the needed assistance for specific pre-schools or clusters of pre-schools or day care centers. DepEd shall provide academic supervision for the pre-school programs of five-year olds of the day-care centers. Some of their activities are as follows: Conduct an inventory of good pre-school educational materials that can be provided to the day-care centers or pre-schools by interested stakeholders. Prepare materials using the lingua franca for pre-school education Conduct training for pre-school or day-care centers and distribute instructional materials. Training of day-care center workers handling five-year olds. The three-day training aims to orient workers on curriculum standards for five-year olds and equip these workers with learning approaches and strategies Improving Teacher Competencies at the Basic Education Level Teachers On Becoming Accountable H.E., the President, noted the alarming deterioration of teachers competencies, particularly in the English language. This is attributable to the weak pre-service training which result in the educators incompetence to teach basic skills. Hence, the President called for the strengthening of teachers in-service trainings. The new General Education Curriculum, according to the Commission on Higher Education s (CHED) Technical Panel, includes: 24 units of the English language, 12 units of Science, 12 units of Mathematics, and 12 units of Social Sciences, adding up to a total of 60 units. This sensible 280
309 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps modification may hopefully solve the problem of the present BS Education curriculum. On the other hand, teachers who were not able to avail of this new curriculum shall undergo intensive teacher-training to improve their competency. H.E., the President, instructed DepEd to prioritize in the curriculum the hard-skills (literacy, communication, numeracy, and critical thinking) in its National Competency-Based Teachers Standards (NCBTS). She said what needs to be focused on now is the in-service teacher-trainings, which is also in line with PCER Recommendation No. 6: Strengthening Teachers Competencies at the Basic Education Level. Efforts of the Philippine Government to create a quality teaching force include new approaches to accountability, designed and implemented through teacher leadership and the participation of large numbers of teachers. These are packaged respectively and/or in coordination among the three educational agencies: DepEd, CHED, and the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA). There is a growing recognition among teachers, parents, and business leaders that teachers who are not performing adequately must receive training, mentoring and all other forms of effective assistance as needed. Teachers who fail to improve, no matter what the reason poor preparation, burn out, or lack of interest in professionalism and who are judged to be incompetent must be counseled or dismissed from the profession in order to ensure students success in school The Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda (BESRA) The Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda (BESRA) of the DepEd is an effort to improve basic education outcomes through a broadly participated, popular movement featuring a wide variety of initiatives. Activities are undertaken by individual schools and communities, as well as networks of schools at localities involving school districts and divisions, local governments, civil society organizations and other stakeholder groups and associations. The overall objectives of BESRA, as these respond to the country s Education for All (EFA) objectives by the year 2015, fully complement and are harmonized with the objectives of the Philippine Main Education Highway. Specifically, in the basic education level, BESRA is attuned to the EFA 2015 definition that basic education is a process that enables the child to become self-reliant, creative, and, in effect become an autonomous learner (EDCOM Report, 1992). 281
310 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy In line with the goal of the Philippine Main Education Highway to achieve a zero dropout rate in the basic education level (primary, elementary and secondary), BESRA ensures that: (a) all persons beyond school-age, regardless of their levels of schooling should acquire the essential competence to be considered functionally literate in their native tongue, in Filipino or in English; (b) all children, aged six, should enter school ready to learn and prepared to achieve the required competencies from Grades One to Three ; (c) all children, aged six to eleven, should be on track to completing elementary schooling with satisfactory achievement levels at every grade, and all children, aged twelve to fifteen, should be on track to completing secondary schooling with similarly satisfactory achievement levels at every year; and (d) every community should mobilize all its social, political, cultural and economic resources and capabilities to support the universal attainment of basic education competencies in Filipino and English. BESRA has five key reform thrusts (KRT) as follows: KRT 1: Get all schools to continuously improve. KRT 2: Enable teachers to further enhance their contribution to learning outcomes. KRT 3: Increase social support to attainment of desired learning outcomes. KRT 4: Improve the impact on outcomes from complementary early childhood education, alternative learning systems and private sector participation. KRT 5: Change the institutional culture of DepEd to better support these key reform thrusts National Competency-Based Teacher Standards (NCBTS) One of the difficulties for educational reform in the present Philippine structure for delivery of educational services is the trifocalization of educational administration with DepEd, CHED, and TESDA. In terms of Teacher Education for Basic Education, a further bifurcation allocates the responsibility for Pre-service Education of Teacher (PET) to CHED and In-service Education of Teachers (INSET) to DepEd. Such a structure can be unwieldy, and does not allow for the easy resolution of those teacher education issues that do not really separate themselves into distinct compartments under the jurisdiction of either PET and/or INSET. (TEDP Report, 2006). In this light, the NCBTS, as a new approach to accountability, emphasizes early intervention, peer review, and recognition of exemplary teachers who serve as mentors or lead teachers. In this case, the NCBTS is an articulation of a singular competency-based framework for teaching and teacher development. 282
311 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps The framework will serve as a guide for all policies, reforms, and activities related to teaching and teacher development. The NCBTS provides the common framework for all teaching and teacher development programs in the Philippine formal education sector. The NCBTS is a coherent and integrated definition of the different dimensions of good teaching that leads to high levels of student learning. The contents of the NCBTS were derived from: (a) educational theories and empirical research on characteristics of learning environment and teaching practices that lead to effective student learning, and (b) documented successful practices and programs of schools, division, regions, and educational reform projects in different parts of the country. The implementation of the NCBTS is coordinated under a Memorandum of Agreement among important major stakeholders: DepEd, CHED, Teacher Education Council (TEC), Civil Service Commission (CSC), Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) and Teacher Education Institutions (TEIs), various related NGOs and civic organizations, private and corporate foundations, and all other concerned groups. The greater formal partnership among the various agencies can be expressed in many different undertakings related to specific aspects of the teacher education continuum. In practice, the framework shall guide: (a) the TEIs policies related to the recruitment, admission, and retention of students; (b) the CHED s and the TEIs design of the pre-service teacher education curriculum; (c) the PRC s design and administration of the licensure examination of teachers; (d) the DepEd s policies on recruitment, hiring and retention, and promotion of teachers; and (e) the DepEd s, TEIs s and other agencies design and implementation of in-service teacher education programs, among all other activities to teacher development Major Thrust: Upgrading the Pre-Service and In-Service Teacher Training Programs Pre-Service Teacher education includes concern on (a) reforming, recruitment, admission and retention policies of pre-service teacher education; (b) aligning pre-service teacher education curriculum with the NCBTS; (c) developing effective mechanisms for the experiential learning component of pre-service teacher education in public schools; (d) identifying COEs mandated to assist in capacity building of TEIs; (e) library and resource development programs for TEIs; (f) rationalization and stronger monitoring of TEIs; and (g) strengthening alternatives to the pre-service teacher education curriculum. 283
312 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy In-Service Teacher education will highlight the following: assessment of teacher development needs; program for needs-based and school-based in-service teacher development; revising the policies for the academic supervision of public school teachers; revision of the framework and policies for the evaluation of teacher performance; revision of the policies for the promotion of teachers and selection of master teachers. The following are the measures indicated to attain the goal of upgrading both the Pre-Service and In-Service Teacher Training Programs: Setting up of the NCBTS is an on-going initiative as a joint inter-agency resolution adopting the NCBTS as the unified framework for teacher development; and information dissemination, orientation and advocacy on the NCBTS. Collaborating with the CHED and TEIs to continuously upgrade the pre-service teacher education system in alignment with the NCBTS, especially in the experiential component of the curriculum. Push for and support efforts to improve capacities of TEIs and to improve CHED efforts to monitor, regulate, and rationalize the pre-service teacher education system. Push for reforms in the licensure examination of teachers, and if necessary, an extensive overhaul of the system of certification of professional teachers to better align the system with the NCBTS. Support orientation and advocacy activities in all levels of the DepEd leading to a deep understanding and appreciation of the NCBTS. Promote and support the use of the NCBTS as a framework for personal appraisal and professional development planning of all teachers. Selectively support INSET activities that are aligned with the NCBTS and the positive themes of teachers development activities. Systematically review and revise hiring, promotions, supervision, and recognition policies and practices within the DepEd to be aligned with the NCBTS The Teacher Education Council (TEC) A great teacher in every classroom is a long battle cry in our education system and elsewhere in the world. It has remained to be an issue for continuing the fight for reforms for nothing has a bigger impact than a teacher on the quality of a child's education. There is need to do more to attract and retain teachers, more to encourage their excellence, and more to ensure that all 284
313 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps teachers are offering high-quality teaching. There is the need to raise pay for teachers, especially in the schools and subjects where great teachers are in the shortest supply. As a continuing process for upgrading our education system, the need to provide opportunities to improve mentoring, professional development, and new technology training for teachers, instead of leaving them to sink or swim is urgent. At the same time, this pose as a challenge for the creation or passage of rigorous new incentives and tests for new teachers including new rewards system for teachers who go the extra mile and excel in helping children learn. To bridge these gaps, R.A was enacted into law on August 4, 1994 which sought to strengthen the teacher education in the Philippines by establishing Centers of Excellence, and creating Teacher Education Council (TEC) for the purpose, appropriating funds therefore and for other purposes. The law has empowered the Council to: To identify and designate among existing private and public schools, teacher education institutions, as Center of Excellence for Teachers Education (COETE) at the national, regional, and provincial levels; To formulate policies and standards that shall strengthen and improve the system of teacher education in all existing public and private schools; To initiate a periodic view of curricula and programs for teacher education and training through methods such as self-assessment by institutions; To adopt an adequate and effective system of incentives such as scholarship grants, loan programs, subsidies, stipends and other similar benefits and incentives, in order to attract and encourage outstanding high school graduates whether from public or private schools to pursue teacher education; To encourage the establishment of consortia and other cooperative arrangement among teacher education schools, public or private, for greater efficiency and economy in the use of resources; To design collaboration programs or projects that will enhance pre-service teacher training, in-service training, re-training, orientation and teacher development; To direct the conduct of relevant studies as may be needed in the formulation of policies and in the planning and successful implementation of plans, programs and projects required in attaining the purposes of this Act; To review existing and recommend new legislation and policies of the government in order to improve teacher education and promote the welfare of the teachers; 285
314 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy To recommend appropriate measures of the President, Congress, and heads of other government offices and agencies to improve, enhance, and strengthen teacher education; and To call upon any department, bureau, office, or government corporation, local government unit and other concerned agencies for assistance in areas falling within their mandate. 2. Tertiary Education 2.1. Commission on Higher Education Continuing Professional Education of Teachers and Faculty The Continuing Professional Education (CPE) of teachers and faculty is a critical part of increasing accountability for Teacher Preparation Programs. The need to ensure that teacher preparation programs are producing quality teachers is a persistent challenge for the entire educational system both local and global. In this regard, countries worldwide recognize the need to assess not only the knowledge and skills of graduates of teacher preparation programs, but also the graduates ability to improve student academic performance. Accordingly, the three education agencies have continued to develop or formulate and improve the existing system of accountability. The system should continue to be part of the education policies and efforts to improve teacher education. However, the growing popularity of alternative programs in teacher education now require each education agency to broaden the scope of accountability. Accountability systems for teacher preparation programs, both traditional and alternative, are critical to the three education agencies efforts to produce quality teachers for all students. Education leaders and policy-makers must continue to push for nation-wide accountability, rigorous graduate performance criteria, and effective assistance strategies for programs in need, and continued research on how to make a teacher preparation programs more effective Faculty Development in the Tertiary Education In line with PCER Recommendation No. 5-Faculty Development at the Tertiary Level, the goal is to produce 3,000 (from the present 1,000) higher education teachers with Master s Degree. H.E. the President recommended conducting teacher s trainings for higher education during Saturdays or summer. 286
315 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps The Faculty Development Program (FDP) is a major component of the six-year Higher Education Development Project (HEDP), a set of reformoriented interventions aimed at improving the quality, equity and efficiency of Philippine higher education. The FDP seeks to upgrade the academic qualifications of tertiary faculty to masters and doctorate degree levels. It is expected that through this program, improved faculty qualifications and teaching methods will contribute directly to better student learning which in turn would translate into higher passing rates in professional licensure examinations and greater productivity of graduates. The priority fields are: English; natural sciences: biology, chemistry, physics; mathematics; material science; social sciences: anthropology, history, economics, philosophy, sociology, educational measurements and evaluation; information technology or system; testing and measurement; electronics; engineering; and other Center of Excellence disciplines. The other FDP components are: Ph. D. Sandwich Program-Foreign (Dissertation Grant) Non-Thesis Master s Degree Program Masters Degree Program Thesis 2.2. Technical Education & Skills Development Authority (TESDA) Technical Vocational Education and Training (Tek-Bok) Republic Act 7796 otherwise known as the TESDA Law created the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) to manage Tek-Bok in the country. With this law, TESDA became the prime authority in Tek-Bok. TESDA s role in workforce development is defined by quality products and services in the areas of: Direction Setting, Standard Setting and Systems Development, Support to TVET Provision, and Institutional Capacity Building the CORE BUSINESS of TESDA. As an authority and national leader in Tek-Bok, TESDA provides clear sense of direction and program priorities thru policies and plans for the Tek-Bok sector. TESDA sets standards that serve as benchmarks against which performance of workers and students are measured through assessment and certification. To ensure provision of reasonable supervision over all Tek-Bok programs, private and public Tek-Bok schools are made to comply with promulgated 287
316 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Training Regulations (minimum standards). Career guidance and scholarships are made available to enhance access and equity to quality Tek-Bok opportunities. The ultimate outcome of Tek-Bok training is of course, employment, whether in paid employment or in self-created jobs. The 2005 graduate tracer study of TESDA showed that the average employment rate of TEk-Bok graduates was 72%. These graduates land jobs within 6 months to one year after their training. This is a marked improvement form the 60% employment rate in Also there is now an increasing acceptability of Tek-Bok as more and more students no longer consider technical education as inferior to higher education Areas of Concern in TEK-BOK TESDA is likewise concerned with maintaining the quality of its products or beneficiaries particularly on how to properly situate the National Career Assessment Examination (NCAE). These concerns are cited as: like the NCEE, the NCAE report needlessly categorizes students into Tek-Bok and CHED materials making unwarranted decisions for the students rather than letting them decide the right career choices for themselves; the NCAE is administered too late to merit quality guidance interventions; career assessment instruments should be formulated by the intended recipients of HS graduates- TESDA and CHED; the YP4SC has a mechanism in place career profiling with guidance through its online assessment instruments; and NCAE and YP4SC could be administered in complementation provided NCAE makes the necessary adjustments Priority Programs The gains TESDA has achieved in Tek-Bok can be attributed to various programs that it has initiated President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo Training for Work Scholarship Project (PMA-TWSP) The President Gloria Macapagal- Arroyo Training-for-Work Scholarship Program (PGMA-TWSP) directly resolves structural unemployment by equipping the out-of-school youth, the unemployed, underemployed and even career shifters with knowledge and skills to fit existing job vacancies. The program offers more than 25 courses under eight (8) sectors that 288
317 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps require critical levels of proficiency, including: Information and Communication Technology: call center agents, medical/legal transcriptionists, animators, software developers, consumer electronics; Metals and Engineering: shielded and gas metal arc welders; Agribusiness: slaughterers or butchers; Construction: heavy equipment operators; Aviation: aircraft maintenance technicians; Hotel and Restaurant Services: baristas, commercial cooks; Health and Social Services (caregivers, bio-medical equipment technicians; Medical Tourism and Wellness Services: massage and spa therapists. Since 2006, President Arroyo has allocated some 1.06 Billion Pesos or the PGMA-TWSP with an allocation of One Billion Pesos more in Scholars are given options to enroll in any private or public training institutions with TESDA- registered programs. The value of scholarship certificates vary from P5, to P30,000.00, depending on the occupation. The PGMA-TWSP also responded to the critical training needs of repatriated Filipino workers from Saudi Arabia and Lebanon, and their dependents. To date, more than 2,000 scholarships have been awarded have been awarded to returning workers for skills training and retooling, and entrepreneurship and enterprise development activities. Scholarship certificates were likewise awarded to the differently-abled, including soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Philippines. Related to this, TESDA has signed a Memorandum of Agreement with the Gokongwei Foundation, which utilizes the facilities of Lufthansa Technique for training of aviation mechanics National TVET Trainers/Assessors Qualification Program In October 2006, TESDA launched the National TVET Trainers/Assessors Qualification Program based on the truism that the quality of training can only be as good as the quality of the trainer. To date, 1,937 trainers/assessors have been qualified and certified. TESDA faces the enormous challenge of qualifying some 23,000 23,000 trainers in the entire Tek-Bok sector. 289
318 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy A fully qualified trainer in technical vocational education and training has an appropriate trade certificate to attest to his or her technical competence. A fully-qualified trainer must have also gone through a training methodology course and earned corresponding training methodology certificate. He or she must have had training and certification in assessment methodology. A TVET trainer must therefore have the technical experience and expertise in his or her own trade (what to teach), the ability to impart knowledge (how to teach) and the capacity to determine or measure the effectiveness of training (what and how to assess). BUILDING BRIDGES AND BUILDING PARTNERS Building partnerships for bridging educational opportunities involve a complex set of functions that are often beyond the capacity and resources of a single organization or department. Formation of internal and external partnerships is an effective strategy for building the needed capacity and for leveraging resources. The scope and nature of partnerships is tailored to fit program needs and organizational culture. In many cases, partnerships evolve and grow with the program, starting with a small number of partners in initial program phases and expanding to increase service scope and capacity in subsequent phases. The success of the bridge program greatly depends on the effectiveness of the working relationships among all of the partners formal and informal. In many instances a number of organizations have already worked together and developed an appreciation of the respective mission, goals and objectives, policies and programs. There are potentials for further harnessing an acceptable scheme for inter-agency programs that address the vision of the Philippine Main Education Highway and the country s quest towards becoming a strong knowledge-based economy. 1. Bridging Technical and Higher Education 1.1. Ladderize Education Program (LEP) In September 2004, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo issued Executive Order 358, to institutionalize a ladderized interface between technicalvocational education and training (TVET) and higher education (HE). Under the Ladderized Education Program (LEP), an ordinary Filipino inching his way to economic stability, can start his journey with a tech-voc course and --- in a span of 3 to 6 months --- be qualified to work, earn and save for a college education. 290
319 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Although ladderized education is not mandatory, the issue in the implementation of E.O. 358 lies in the requirement that higher education institutions intending to ladderize their degree programs are still required to secure a permit from CHED and a registration certificate from TESDA before the ladderized program can be offered to prospective students. Executive Order 694 which provides that higher education institutions opting to ladderize their educational programs can do so without the need for issuance of a permit from the CHED or TESDA. Implementing guidelines should be immediately issued by TESDA and CHED to address the concerns aired by the higher education institutions regarding the requirement for prior permit from TESDA and CHED as a basis for the offering of a ladderized degree program. Executive Order 694 applies to programs that have been previously granted government recognition by CHED, programs for which model curriculum have been issued by CHED and TESDA. The concerned higher education institution shall submit a copy of the ladderized curriculum to CHED and TESDA. TESDA and CHED should also develop standard curricula for disciplines other than the eight pilot disciplines: nursing, maritime, engineering, technical teacher education, agriculture and fishery, hotel and restaurant services, criminology and information technology. The President s Ladderized Education Program brings about the integration of job-related systems and the fusion of common goals in the trifocalized education system to produce Pinoy Workers of the World, who are referred to as Pinoy WOW Youth Profiling for Starring Career (YP4SC) TESDA s YP4SC Program is a complete guidance delivery system to help young Filipinos make right career choices, based on an objective assessment of their strengths and interests. It is designed to help young Filipinos identify the careers that will place them in starring roles. Recognizing that each individual is unique, YP4SC gives students the right courses for the right profiles, which should lead to the right jobs. In so doing, the burgeoning job-skills mismatch is arrested at its very root e-career Profiling E-Career Profiling makes this guidance service of career profiling available electronically to profiling clients. It can be taken online (accessing a website) 291
320 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy or offline (using uploaded profiling instruments in the personal computer). e-career Profiling uses the following two assessment instruments: Computerized Interest Profiler (CIP) Computerized Ability Profiler (CAP) The profiling report is intended as career guide to enable a person to make a wise and informed career choice. Its merits are captured in the following characteristics: (1) It informs the student (among others) of the labor market scenario realistically tied to his abilities and occupational interests; (2) It provides an unrestricted avenue to further education after high school; (3) It provides a gestation period to consider future career earlier than 4 th year high school; (4) It does not categorize a student outright as potentially Tek-Bok-bound or CHED material. The student decides what to choose; (5) It does not limit possibilities all kinds of potentially favorable careers are given through the entire gamut of learning (short-term programs, technician courses, degree courses up to the doctoral fields); (6) Its assessment condition is friendly, non-threatening, non-competitive and unbiased; (7) TESDA s career profiling is not only for students but for everyone e-tesda e-tesda is another E-KNOW-VATION that broadens access to TESDA s information and training services. The Electronic Portal offers free on-line training to Filipinos using interactive software. On-line training scholarships are also provided for free, as these are also funded by the PGMA-TWSP. It is also designed as a facility to make Tek-Bok services reach far more beneficiaries through the internet and the e-tesda portal. Furthermore, it ensures transparency of Tek-Bok information to the public, such as information on schools, graduates, certified workers, accredited assessment centers, assessors, registered programs, ladderized curriculum, training regulations, standards and all that our public should know about Tek-Bok. Another major feature of the e-tesda portal is its job search and matching system. TESDA uses the portal to bring together all job sites, employers and jobseekers virtually and physically thus addressing the problem of mismatch Free Assessment Service (FAST) of TESDA TESDA pursues the assessment and certification of the competencies of skilled workers. The assessment process determines whether a graduate or 292
321 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps worker can perform to the standards expected in the workplace based on the defined competency standards. To broaden access to TESDA s assessment and certification services, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo has also given the means to provide Free Assessment Service of TESDA or FAST to allow Filipinos to earn skills certificates at no cost. TESDA started providing free assessment services last May 26, 2007 and to date some 6,380 have been assessed out of which 4,740 or 74.29% have been duly certified. In 2008, FAST is being intensified so that half a million workers all over the country will benefit from this free assessment service to enhance their employability in the labor market Language Skills Institute (LSI) The Language Skills Institute was established to add value to the worldwide recognition of the Overseas Filipino Workers as skilled workers. In addition to knowledge, skills and attitude ingrained in the OFW, language and the ability to communicate with the employers, the co-workers and the communities in the destination countries is also a must. The LSI is the facility of TESDA in its headquarters in Taguig City and in 37 other TESDA sites to provide workplace language training in English, Korean, Spanish, Mandarin, Arabic, Nihongo and other languages of the major destination countries of OFWs. The training is made available for free through the PGMA Training for Work Scholarship Program Vocational Secondary Programs In the process of implementing a vocational secondary program, DepEd should harmonize such program with the minimum standards promulgated by TESDA to ensure that secondary school leavers acquire job competencies prescribed by such standards. This will ensure their success in earning national qualifications to enable them to satisfactorily compete for jobs in the labor market. TESDA has identified some basic issues that needs to be addressed at the vocational secondary programs such as: (a) Lack of basic competencies of high school graduates (communication skills, mensuration, problem solving); (b) Trainers unnecessarily conduct refresher programs on the three R s impinging on the limited training cost and hours; (c) Difficulty to apply automatically learning acquired through crash courses; and (d) High school graduates must be prepared to meet the demands of post-secondary education and training. 293
322 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 2. Mainstreaming the Madrasah Education As early as March 31, 1982, Letter of Instruction (LOI) No was issued by the late President Ferdinand Marcos to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports (MECS) mandating the formulation and adoption of a program for the development of the Madrasah system of education and its gradual integration into the mainstream of the Philippine education system. The LOI also stated to endow them with the capabilities to contribute to the modernization of their communities within the framework of their Islamic faith. A number of issuances were executed until in 1996 a historical opportunity drummed beat the institutionalization of mainstreaming the Madrasah educational system. The Mindanao Peace Agreement in September 2, 1996 paved the way for the formulation of a Comprehensive Mindanao Education Program under Administrative Order 290 signed by former President Fidel Ramos and Madrasah education was one of the key flagships of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM). On March 31, 2001, the Organic Law (Republic Act 9054 of 2001) was passed and formalized the creation of the current ARMM. Republic Act 9054 as the constitution of ARMM further declared that the Regional Educational System in the ARMM as a deemed subsystem of the national educational system. Republic Act 9054 also states that appropriate educational bodies of the central government or national government shall monitor compliance by the regional educational subsystem with national policies, standards and regulation. DEPED-ARMM is also clothed with authority to participate in policy and decision-making activities in the central or national government in matters that affect the regional educational system. In effect, these provisions defined DEPED national framework of accountability and standards vis-à-vis DepED-ARMM. Another unique provision of RA 9054 states that the Regional Legislative Assembly (RLA) may pass laws that may over-ride national laws. If the RLA does not pass such laws, then the National law prevails. However, the Muslim Mindanao Autonomy Act of 1992 as the Regional Education Act (MMAA No.14) and the Governance of Basic Education Act of 2001 (RA 9155) introduced confusing set of inconsistencies and contradictions that became a root cause for abstraction for the educational development in the ARMM particularly in the implementation of DEPED-ARMM policy and National policy in the education sector. One of the key constraints identified is that ARMM has not exercised its prerogative to legislate its own educational laws and provisions and thus defaults to national policy and programs without the funds to implement them. 294
323 , Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 2.1. The Importance of Mainstreaming Madrasah Education vis-à-vis the Philippine Main Education Highway Her Excellency, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, in February 8, 2002 declared Madrasah Education as one of the 5-Point Agenda of her administration s program in Mindanao: Edukasyon para sa Kapayapaan at Kaunlaran sa Mindanao. The term madrasah has varied meanings. Most generally, it is the term given in Arabic to any school, but it is also used to refer to specific types of schools. Madaris are at least a thousand years old. Accounts differ as to where madaris began and today the Madrasah typically functions as a privately owned school where a religious teacher instills his pupils with the basic tenets of Islam and the Arabic language. The main subjects of Muslim education the Qur an (the holy book), Hadith (sayings of the prophet Mohammed), and Fiqh (jurisprudence) are the focus of the curriculum, but there is no universally fixed course of study. History, science and math may also be introduced if the teacher is sufficiently well versed in those subjects. The language of instruction is usually Arabic, though local dialect may also be used. Differences between Islamic and secular education showed that in the Islamic education system students do not progress regularly from one grade level to the next, nor are there clear-cut divisions between primary, secondary, and tertiary levels, based on performance standards and examinations. Schools generally have looser time tables and students progress individually, with those who are more advanced helping those who have learned less. Madaris vary widely in size and quality, and also in duration of studies. They range from informal religious instruction for young children, with classes usually taught at the local mosque or in private homes, to prestigious secondary schools. Most informal Madaris offer a few hours of instruction over the weekend in makeshift classrooms. Some Madaris are full-time, offering class five to seven days a week. A few well-endowed institutions offer a program of intensive study often leading to tertiary Islamic studies. Depending on the Madrasah and its resources, classes may be offered to young children, from as young as pre-school age to older children and youth of high school age. Many Madaris are located in poor communities and provide essential social services: education and lodging for children who otherwise could well find themselves the victims of forced labor, exploitation, or other forms of abuse. Madaris may serve communities that government schools do not reach, particularly in rural areas. Even in the cities, where many more government 295
324 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy and other private schools exist, Madaris provide social services for Muslim orphans. Many Muslim parents choose to send their children to Madaris because they consider the education they get there to be a respectable one. Girls are often allowed to attend Madaris but not secular schools because parents trust that they are safe. On the other hand, many are woefully ill-equipped in terms of furniture, books, teaching/learning supplies, and even toilets, and some children are used by the imam teacher to beg and provide him with income National Government Interventions for Madrasah Education The efforts of national government to mainstream the Madrasah Education is assigned to the Department of Education under E.O. 368 issued by Her Excellency, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, mandating the transfer of the functions of the Madrasah Development Coordinating Committee, namely: (1) Identify possible sources of and receive financial assistance for Madrasah development; (2) Promulgate standard procedures for judicious management, use, distribution and disposition of these assistance opportunities; (3) Endorse noteworthy proposals for funding to relevant local, bilateral, multilateral institutions; (4) Coordinate Madrasah-related researches, studies and programs and projects undertaken by government, or private individuals or institutions; (5) Fast track and monitor the implementation of government education programs in Mindanao vis-à-vis the Comprehensive Mindanao Education Program (CMEP) and/or the Edukasyon para sa Kapayapan at Kaunlaran sa Mindanao (EDUKKMIN) DEPED Pilot Madaris In the eight pilot Madaris, strategic interventions: (a) Standard Curriculum; (b) improving the learning environment; (c) providing textbooks and supplementary reading/ learning materials; and (d) training teachers. The 8 pilot Madaris are assisted to apply for DepEd recognition through issuance of a Permit to Operate which requires DepEd inspections of Madrasah facilities and records. This is the first step toward DepEd accreditation, and by the end of the year, each pilot school had acquired a permit The Standard Curriculum The recent DepEd Order No. 51 of 2004 orders a Standard Curriculum for Private Madaris that should incorporate basic education subjects in to the daily schedule of private Madaris. It instructs Madaris to merge the government s 296
325 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps basic curriculum (english, math, civics, language), and the Madrasah curriculum (Arabic, Qur an, Hadith, jurisprudence). To date, however, the standard curriculum is only a policy. There are no accepted syllabi or instructional materials to support its use in the classroom. A small number of Madaris are attempting to introduce secular subjects though their efforts are greatly limited by funding, few if any instructional materials, and no suitably trained teachers. In theory the standard curriculum represents a compromise between the Department of Education on one hand and religious leaders and Madrasah operators on the other. It has been the product of negotiations among the national and regional (ARMM) offices responsible for education. The standard curriculum, and a broader set of proposed guidelines known as a Roadmap for Upgrading Muslim Basic Education, has not yet received any government funding for implementation. Notwithstanding the controversies over the Roadmap that these bodies are making, these guidelines represent a genuine effort to broaden and improve Madrasah education in the Philippines while respecting the deep cultural heritage that Madaris represent and sustain. One interesting (and controversial) element of the Roadmap is that it does not limit its focus to Madaris. In fact, it also prescribes the introduction of Arabic Language and Islamic Values in public schools where Muslims comprise a majority of the student body. The strategy was to introduce basic education (foundation skills) into the eight pilot madaris. The madaris operators willing to join the experimental effort wanted to take things one step at a time so as to assess the communities reactions. They wanted to see whether and to what extent a madrasah could integrate secular subjects and promote a Filipino identity while still preserving its Muslim heritage. For this reason, the strategy was to introduce the DepEd s Standard Curriculum one grade at a time, starting with grade one. In selecting the pilot madaris, an important criterion was the willingness of the madrasah operator to cooperate in the implementation of the standard curriculum Improving the Learning Environment: The initial task for improving the learning environment was to assess the infrastructure needs of each madrasah. Madrasah owners, teachers, and parents participated in the assessment, and the result was a prioritized list of repair materials. Donor Agency involved (Creative Associates International, Inc-funded by USAID) incentive of materials assistance up to about $950 in addition to plywood, sheet metal, cement and paint for minor repairs, several 297
326 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy madaris also installed toilets. The same fund was also used to procure school bags filled with pencils, pens, crayons, notebooks and other school supplies for incoming grade 1 students. When the next academic year began in June of 2006, the project provided school desks and a new set of school bags to incoming grade one students, and about 500 textbooks for grades one and two. These donations engendered an outpouring of gratitude and goodwill from the teachers, parents and students. While books, bags and desks do not improve the quality of education per se, they certainly raise the level of student/teacher motivation, and they can be combined with other quality interventions to improve the overall learning environment and learning outcomes Training for Madrasah Teachers The need to train madrasah teachers to begin integrating the standard curriculum is one of the major activities in the mainstreaming of the Madrasah education. It quickly became apparent what a tall order this would be. Although teachers were generally cooperative (recognizing the opportunity to help their students), they had much to learn before they could effectively teach the secular subjects in the new curriculum. When it comes to teaching english, math, reading and the skills related to pedagogy, lesson-planning, student assessment, grading, and classroom management, most Madaris teachers have very limited proficiency. The DepEd strategy of upgrading basic education and introducing a standard curriculum for private madaris is dependent on the madrasah teachers proficiency in the subjects of the curriculum and on their capacity to teach those foundation skills to their pupils. With such low levels of proficiency, madrasah teachers require a credible long-term commitment from DepEd to their professional development. Such a commitment is not yet in place. With its limited timeframe of less than two years, the project had to set its sights on realistic objectives and available resources. It adopted the existing 23-day training in English language proficiency and pedagogy designed in 2005 by DepEd in association with AusAID. This design shared its training curriculum, training materials, and even its trainers with Creative Associate International. Thirty-two madrasah teachers and administrators were trained in these sessions. The Creative project also trained teachers in public schools and invited madrasah participants to most of these training sessions in English and math Building Relationships Through Consultation on Policy The policy and political dimensions of the project implemented in 2004 to 298
327 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 2006 proved to be critical as there was significant momentum within the ARMM government to re-write ARMM s Basic Education Law. Creative Associates International-USAID provided substantial technical support to the process of legislative review and revision. Creative conducted research and prepared three reports. One was an overview of major policy issues and constraints affecting basic education, including madaris. The second was a review of education legislation and policy implementation in the ARMM. This review compared ARMM education legislation with national education legislation in order to assess the gaps, contradictions, and recommendations for better harmonization. The third report examined the institutional and operational effectiveness of DepEd ARMM and made recommendations for strengthening its capacity to improve access and quality in basic education. From teachers and school administrators to Bureau Directors at the regional level, the study revealed many training activities and capacity-building interventions funded by a variety of national and international projects, between 2000 to While all this investment in training had resulted in improved human resource capacity, the impact on institutional capacity had been more limited. Holding of fora with the Accrediting Association of Muslim Schools and Colleges, Inc.; National Federation of Madaris, and other Madaris operators. Organized workshops with Madaris operators to study the requirements of the new standard curriculum for Private Madaris, establish guidelines for its implementation in ARMM Madaris, and began to discuss how private Madaris could achieve formal recognition and eventual accreditation from DepEd ARMM. Perhaps the most significant accomplishment of these workshops was that DepEd, representing the government and the secular sector, sat for days with Madaris operators, representing the private and sectarian sector. Such forthright face-to-face discussions of sensitive issues related to advancing Muslim education had never taken place. In May 2006 the project conducted a Strategic Planning Workshop to assess current problems and opportunities in Madrasah education. Participants came primarily from DepEd National Office, DepEd ARMM, and private Madaris. The DepEd National presented its evolving Roadmap for Upgrading Muslim Basic Education to DepEd ARMM officials and private Madrasah operators; the latter group acknowledged concern that the map might lead to state interference in and secularization of community-based madaris. By July 2006 the revisions had been compiled and handed to the ARMM Governor to introduce it as a bill for passage by the Regional Legislative Assembly (RLA). 299
328 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy School Based Management Results of current research on decentralization per se, which covers the policy on school based management, appear to be ambivalent regarding its advantages and disadvantages. The Philippines experience, however, with its three major programs, namely: Synergia, Project Impact, and Parent Learning Support System, all point to positive effects of school based management. But then these three programs are not simple cases of decentralization whereby a school principal is told Okay, Mr. Principal, you re on your own now. These three programs empowered the school head; and in addition he was supported by the parents, the community and by other stakeholders. In the case of the Synergia, the most recent program on school based management, the schools were assisted by the local governments in the area. Fr. Bienvenido Nebres of Synergia concluded There are two most important elements that must be present for school based management to work. These are: a good principal and support of the community. The Task Force recommends the up scaling of the school based management modeled after any of the three programs mentioned above. 3. Harmonizing and Synchronizing the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) Educational System 3.1. ARMM Educational Status Records show that ARMM lags behind in terms of educational performance. Likewise, a notable development in the ARMM s education sector is the existence of Madaris, which was already recognized under the Letters of Instruction (LOI) 1221 and 71-A; and Republic Act 9054 as part of the Philippine Educational System. The ARMM Educational System: RA 9054 defines the basis for achieving improved access and quality education in the region. ARMM has three paths or elements of basic education: formal system; the alternative learning system and the Madrasah system. ARMM has also three education agencies/departments: Department of Education, CHED and TESDA Equivalent to RA 9155 (Governance of Basic Education Act) ARMM s basic education governance is covered by a Muslim Mindanao Autonomy Act 300
329 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps (MMAA) No. 14 An Act Providing for a system of education for the ARMM, creating a Regional Department of Education, Culture and Sports, and Appropriating Funds Therefore, and for other purposes. This was issued before the change in the title of the DEPED from DECS which was also correspondingly adopted by ARMM. Madrasah Education is one of the major integral parts of the regional education program under the MMAA No. 14 (Sec. 3c), a policy declaration, stating that the accreditation and integration of the madaris into the educational system shall form part of the major thrust of the regional educational system in the Autonomous Region and the Regional Department of Education, Culture and Sports (RDECS) shall provide a continuing system within the organization to ensure the attainment of this objective. The implementation or adoption of the Madrasah education, basically generic to ARMM, unlike in the Central or National educational agencies is part or significant component of the Peace Agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines (GRP) and the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) in September 2, The lowest in educational performance/quality of educational services are in the provinces located in the ARMM and for which there is no budget allocation provided for in the respective budgets of the national or main educational agencies. ARMM is expectedly empowered to legislate or pass its own budget (in the GAA) for approval by the DBM and by the House of Congress and Senate. The three ARMM educational agencies/departments, through the Regional Assembly Legislation, is given wide range of powers to localize or indigenized its curricula provided it does not run contrary or in contradiction with the prescribed standards of the Philippine National Educational System. A review of the education legislation and policy implementation in the ARMM Basic Education [done by the EQuALLS (Education Quality and Access for Learning and Livelihood Skills) through the Creative Associates International, a USAID funded project] showed some major findings and recommendations: On Madrasah Education: Non-implementation or barely partial implementation of RA 9054 mandating the RLA (Regional Legislative Assembly) to enact legislations for the strengthening and development of the Madrasah Educational system in the autonomous region including the funding mechanism/budget On Teacher Development: There is not an expressed priority in RA 9054 on Education neither existing policy on teacher development; On closer coordination with other educational agencies/departments: No expressed regional policy for upgrading the quality of tertiary education and for establishing closer links between primary education needs and 301
330 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy tertiary education programs, particularly for teacher development; Clear-cut provisions of shared governance (school-based management) to promote transparency and accountability in the service (teachers, principals, school administrators) Division/district achievement tests: Interviews with officials at Division and district levels; principals and teachers, including promotional chiefs, revealed problems in the administration of achievement tests at the end of each year as: each division/district/school will produce their own sets of tests (production); No support for the localization of nationally-generated basic education curricula and national learning programs particularly in English, Science and Math; The need to improve education financing scheme and management Over-all the issue on harmonization and synchronization as proposed by the PTFE should include explicitly the ARMM Educational Systems ARMM Medium-Term Development Plan, Strategic Framework for the Education Sector: Basic Education Adopt innovative and alternative delivery system and extend the services of schools that will raise the retention, survival, and completion rate at all levels of education; Enhance teacher, child and parent s participation in the school health and nutrition program and establish linkage with the health and nutrition programs of concerned agencies; Intensify non-formal education delivery systems by mobilizing the resources and graduates of the SUCs and CHED supervised HEIs; and Develop and preserve the cultural heritage of the people in the ARMM through refinement and enrichment of the curricula in all levels reflective of the authentic culture and history of the Muslims and other ethnic groups in the Philippines Madaris Education Provide support mechanism for the operation of the Madaris in ARMM Facilitate the creation of the Commission on Madaris; and 302
331 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Facilitate the mainstreaming of Madaris Education in the public and private education system in the region Higher Education Strict regulation and rationalize course offerings in ARMM Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) to demands of the economy; Institutionalize a culture of excellence in higher education institutions and programs both in state colleges and universities and the private schools through the implementation of requirements and standards of quality in all aspects of higher education system such as inputs, processes and outputs; and Strictly enforce accreditation policies to ensure quality education. 4. Education Tourism: A Bridging Strategy 4.1. Program Description The Education Tourism Program of the Philippines (ETPP) is a special project of the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education and the Presidential Task Force for Education. It offers foreign tourists the opportunity to earn technical skills, skills certification, academic credits and academic degrees while enjoying the tourist destinations that only the Philippines can offer. The ETPP focuses on the Department of Tourism s (DOT) eight priority destinations: Vigan-Laoag-Hundred Islands Baguio-Ifugao-Banaue Subic-Clark Metro Manila-Tagaytay-Cavite-Batangas Northern Palwan Boracay-Iloilo Bohol-Cebu-Camiguin Davao and its environs 4.2. Objectives The ETPP was created because of the steady increase of tourists visiting the country. The program hopes to increase the inflow of foreign tourists who intend to acquire academic credits, technical skills, skills certification, 303
332 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy academic degrees, and/or continuing education in the country in specific fields. The ETPP hopes to bridge nations through education by establishing the Philippines as the Asia-Pacific Region s premiere Knowledge Center and Tourist Haven. In addition, the program can provide the Philippines with added income as evidenced by the growing amount of tourist receipts garnered over the years; for the year 2006 to 2007, there was a 40.99% increase in the amount of tourist receipts. Specifically, the program has the following target objectives for : To increase the number of foreign students, foreign tourist enrollees from the current level of 5,000 to 10,000 by 2009 and for part time participants (tourists) to as many as 500,000 by To increase the number of participating schools, colleges and universities enrolling foreign students from 1,349 (as of 2007) by 50% come 2010, particularly in tourist areas. To broaden and strengthen areas of studies and/or course offerings at a globally competitive level 4.3. Participant s Profile The ETPP welcomes the participation of tourists and students, of any age and nationality, who are interested in learning a new skill or earning a degree while enjoying the magnificence of the Philippine destinations Specialized Areas of Study The ETPP has a TWIN SERVICE which offers courses where the Philippines has an international competitive advantage. A flexible system of learning is also employed to appease the inquisitive jetsetters Service 1: Short Skill Courses The acquisition of the short skill service enhances both the participant s the personal satisfaction and entrepreneurial desire, providing adequate hands-on experiences to ensure the proper transfer of skills. At the end of the program, certificates of competencies are awarded. Participants are trained in any of the following choices: priority area-based, institution based or a combination of both. The courses may be taken by tourists while they are on-board: air, sea or land. Additionally, while on land, 304
333 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps the courses may be undertaken while in the hotel, restaurant or resort to accommodate the busy schedule of the participant. The following are the short skill training programs offered by the ETPP: a. Conversational English Language b. Filipino Medical Wellness Services Traditional Massages Herbal/Oriental Medicine d. Culinary Arts Philippine Cuisine Island Delicatessens Food Preservation and Processing e. Creative and Performing Arts Music Dance e. Recreation Scuba Diving Golf Service 2: Degree Programs Degree Programs are open to high school graduates from abroad. Interested students who may already have academic credits may certify these by utilizing the Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency Accreditation Program (ETEEAP). The programs are taught in-campus, off-campus or through online instruction. The following are the Degree Programs offered by the ETPP: a. Business b. Teacher Education c. Hospitality Management d. Criminal Justice Education e. Nursing f. Medicine g. Agriculture h. Engineering i. Science and Technology 305
334 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Have you ever been at sea in a dense fog, when it seemed as if a tangible white darkness shut you in and the great ship, tense and anxious, groped her way toward the shore with plummet and sounding-line, and you waited with beating heart for something to happen? I was like that ship before my education began, only I was without compass or sounding line, and no way of knowing how near the harbor was. "Light! Give me light!" was the wordless cry of my soul, and the light of love shone on me in that very hour. -Hellen Keller 306
335 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Chapter 4: Fine Tuning the System: Major Points for Harmonization and Synchronization...WHEREAS, the need to synchronize and harmonize the government s educational policies, programs and initiatives becomes all the more urgent given our country s ranking in worlds competitiveness; Executive Order No. 632 A fter a thorough study and a good number of consultations, in addition to the output of the Workshop of the National Congress, a consensus has been arrived at to maintain and fine-tune the present trifocalized structure of the education system by enhancing each agency s capability to deliver education as mandated, ensuring that the common concerns of these agencies are harmonized and synchronized with the entire education system. Close monitoring, assessment and evaluation shall be undertaken to ensure continuous improvement. Existing coordinating mechanisms will be revitalized and strengthened in order to improve the synchronization and harmonization of education programs. Specifically, the Board of Advisers provided for in the CHED Law (RA 7722) must be immediately activated and strengthened, with the DepEd Secretary as Chairman. Likewise, the Teacher Education Council (TEC) created under RA 7784 must be strengthened to harmonize all concerns related to the education and qualification of teachers as mandated, including the identification of Centers of Excellence for Teacher Education, periodic review of curricula and standards for teacher education, the design of collaborative 307
336 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy programs to enhance pre-service teacher education, the review of existing legislation and formulation of new or amendatory legislation on teacher education. The TEC is under the leadership of the DepEd Secretary as Chairman. STRENGTHENING COORDINATION AMONG THE EDUCATION AGENCIES In order to address the overlapping issues/concerns, the government agencies working for Philippine education spearheaded by the OPAE/PTFE will adopt a Sector Wide Approach for Philippine Education (SWAPEd). It is the process of engaging all government stakeholders in order to attain national ownership, alignment of objectives, harmonization of procedures, approaches and a coherent financing arrangement for the education sector. In addition, the SWAPEd process involves broad stakeholder consultations in designing a coherent and rationalized sector programme at micro and macro levels and the establishment of tighter sub-sector coordination mechanisms among and between education agencies. Through the SWAPeD process, the Government and other education partners will develop the Inter-agency Coordination for Education Framework (ICE Framework). The framework comprises investment initiatives focusing on the entire education sector. The ICE Framework fits within the broader framework of national policy as set out in the Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan for Education and the Philippine Main Education Highway. Our vision is guided by the understanding that quality education and training contribute significantly to economic growth and expansion of employment opportunities, as well as make it parallel to other emerging trends like the knowledge-based economy. The vision which is in tandem with the government s plan as articulated in the Medium-Term Development Plan for Education therefore provides the rationale for major reforms in the current education system in order to enable all Filipinos to have access to quality life-long education and training. The ICE Framework is based on the rationale of the overall policy goal of achieving Education for All (EFA) and the government s commitment to the attainment of Millennium Development Goals (MDG) set by the United Nations. The broad objective is to give every Filipino the right to quality education and training no matter the socioeconomic status by having tighter coordination amongst government agencies working for education at various levels. This will be achieved through the provision of an all-inclusive quality education that is accessible and relevant to all Filipinos. 308
337 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps The ICE Framework operates the inter-organizational theory which clearly shows the coordinatedness within and between offices, departments, and organizations working for the education sector. Aside from coordination amongst the actors, the inter-organizational theory also considers cooperative relationships as goal-direction and process-related joint ventures. Through coordination and cooperative relationships, various institutions work together and collectively enhance performance by sharing commitments and resources, and operating for common task goals. As presented in the paradigm, spherical connection linking different government agencies forms part the input of the ICE Framework. The interconnection within the various government organizations is illustrated by double-headed arrows representing the synchronous connection of inward-outward mobility and integration. The integration scenario design environment is systematized by a coordinating body and other existing coordinating mechanisms performing as center player and mediator. The process in the ICE Framework involves the dynamic interaction between various education sub-sector agencies as well as the other strategic partners and education stakeholders, which is embedded in networks of coordination and cooperative relationships that influence the flow of resources among them and execution of projects, programs, and activities towards the attainment of the desired output. This process also engages the conception of coordinating body, together with the other existing coordinating mechanisms that are revitalized and strengthened to improve the synchronization and harmonization of education programs and policies. The Philippine Main Education Highway towards Knowledge-based Economy and Human Resources Development is the desired output of the ICE Framework. The Philippine Main Education Highway serves as the strategic platform towards the fulfillment of the goal of producing quality and world-class graduates. The Main Education Highway continuum starts from pre-school, basic education, middle-level or technical-vocational education/ training and higher education. It is geared towards attaining the objectives of reducing the drop-out rate and improving student performance; strengthening/ tightening linkage of tertiary education, both technical-vocational education/ training and higher education with business and industry; and investing on manpower resources that strive for excellence, including successful and professionally competent entrepreneurs who can contribute to a productive, responsible and globally competitive Filipino citizenry, as well as cope with change in a knowledge-based economy. Moreover, human resource development should focus on improving the match between college education 309
338 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Figure 14: The Inter-agency Coordination for Education Framework The Inter-agency Coordination for Education Framework (ICE Framework) DepEd TEC TESDA CHED DSWD Coordinating Body and other existing coordinating mechanisms CONGRESS H.O.R. Senate DOST-SEI LGUs NEDA DTI PRC Philippine Main Education Highway towards a Knowledge-based Economy Contain each student at all levels basic, secondary and tertiary in the highway, Catch them and provide them with relevant educational interventions lest they drop out; put them back in the Highway and keep them on the right track, Capitalize on our manpower resources, produce the best human resource that strives for excellence, among which are successful and professionally competent entrepreneurs who can contribute largely to a productive, responsible and globally competitive Filipino citizenry. Market-Responsive for key employment generators Industry demand-driven education and training Globally competitive work force Human Resources Development 310
339 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps and the needed qualification standards in business and industry. It should be designed to create market-responsive initiatives for key employment generators. Industry demand-driven education and training must produce globally competitive workforce. The ICE Framework presented herein elaborates the harmonization and coordination mechanisms between and among the major education agencies like the DepEd together with the Teachers Education Council (TEC), CHED, and the TESDA, as well as the industry sector through the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), the legislative branch of the government composed of the Senate of the Philippines and the House of Representatives (HOR), alongside other strategic partners and education stakeholders such as the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC), Department of Science and Technology Science Education Institute (DOST-SEI), Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), and the Local Government Units (LGUs). Harmonization of policies, programs and tasks among the three education agencies (DepEd, CHED and TESDA) would involve: (a) synchronization of plans, programs, projects and activities; (b) minimization if not total avoidance of overlaps and duplication of functions; (c) promotion of complementation activities including those with other government and non-government agencies and industry. Moreover, the ICE Framework aims to ensure that the cross-cutting issues/ concerns in the education sector are properly addressed by revitalizing/ strengthening existing coordination mechanisms and empowering the coordinating body to facilitate the tighter inter-agency coordination amongst education agencies and other stakeholders, including the following: 1. DepEd and DSWD The enactment of the Early Childhood Care and Development (ECCD) Act (Republic Act No. 8980) is a significant development in the field of early childhood care and development. The Act seeks to institutionalize a comprehensive, integrative and sustainable National ECCD System that involves a multi-sectoral and inter-agency collaboration at the national and local levels. The inter-agency collaboration between the DSWD and the DepEd for the implementation of the ECCD Act sets the roles and responsibilities of each member agency of the National ECCD Coordinating Council. 311
340 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 2. TESDA and CHED TESDA and CHED have worked together to map out competency equivalents to develop possible credit equivalency matrices in selected disciplines through the Ladderized Education Program (LEP). Ladderized curricula have also been developed in some of the identified degree programs. Jointly, CHED and TESDA are aggressively encouraging many higher education institutions to include in their curriculum the new ladderized education curriculum which interfaces technical vocational education and training with higher education. Higher education institutions can now ladderize their degree programs without the need to secure a permit from CHED or TESDA, by virtue of Executive Order No. 694, on programs that have been previously recognized by CHED and with a promulgated model curriculum. 3. CHED and PRC The CHED and PRC have agreed to coordinate closely with industry vis-à-vis standards setting and content (curricula development) and for PRC to upgrade its examination system for all professions and update licensure examinations to reflect technical and scientific requirements of business and industry. 4. Academe and the Industry Coordination between post-basic education agencies (CHED and TESDA) and the industry sector helps to improve the employability of graduates and to meet the manpower demands of priority industries. The tertiary level, both technical education and higher education, shall be closely linked with industry to resolve the enduring problem of mismatch between the academe and the industry. In this light, the industry sector has identified champions for several industry sectors namely: Ship Building; Electronics; Business Process Outsourcing (BPO); Healthcare; Tourism/Travel/Hospitality Services; Maritime; and Engineering. The goal is to create a template for the working relationship between academe and industry, including curricula, teaching modules, among others. 5. Education Agencies and LGUs The LGUs shall be encouraged to put education on forefront of their thrusts and priority programs. Local authorities must be involved in order to tap their local resources in improving service delivery for education and create its community-owned local education plan and budget. 312
341 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps As to local colleges, CHED has started to coordinate with local government colleges and universities in terms of their compliance with CHED s minimum program standards, as well as to ensure that they offer job-related courses, especially those that will address community manpower requirements. A CHED representative may be designated as member of the Board of Regents/Board of Trustees of the Local Colleges/University to capitalize on tighter coordination between the CHED and the local university/college by partaking in the administration of the learning institution. 6. Education Agencies and DOST-SEI Through the coordination efforts between DOST-SEI and other education agencies particularly CHED, a scheme to consolidate, harmonize and restructure existing scholarships and student financial assistance programs in the field of science education may be designed. In addition, research and faculty development are expected to be harnessed to improve teaching competency through the joint activities of DOST-SEI and CHED, such as Summer Institute Training, Summer Practical Training Program, among others. 7. Education Agencies and DOT Leading the effort to promote the Philippines as an education tourism destination are CHED, higher education institutions, and the Department of Tourism (DOT). Education tourism is aimed at advancing the education services industry as a form of tourism, and ensures the successful inclusion of international students a key differentiator in cementing Philippines standing as a global schoolhouse - Knowledge Center in Asia-Pacific. Through this, RP's position as an education hub and global schoolhouse will be strengthened and the benchmarks for service excellence in the various areas of education services provision will be ensured. Execution of further efforts of collaboration for the following programs should be undertaken: English as a Second Language or ESL Tour Programs and courses in hospitality management and tourism, information technology (IT) education, science & technology (biodiversity and marine biology), agriculture, engineering, medicine and healthcare, etc. 8. Education Agencies and the Public Safety Services Training Institutions Although advanced training and education in military and police academies are supervised and regulated by the Department of National Defense and Philippine National Police, the CHED may establish new levels of coordination with public safety services training institutions like the Philippine Military 313
342 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Academy (PMA) and the Philippine Public Safety College (PPSC), including the National Police College (NPC), Philippine National Police Academy (PNPA), Police National Training Institute (PNTI) and its 18 Regional Training Schools (RTS) nationwide, Fire National Training Institute (FNTI), Jail National Training Institute (JNTI) and the National Forensic Science Training Institute (NFSTI). These training institutions have continuing networking and linkaging efforts with CHED. In particular, the PMA s continuing review of the PMA curriculum is directed towards compliance with CHED mandated courses, aligned with the newly established Cadet Leader Development System (CLDS), and focused on leadership development. Another possible area of collaboration between these training institutions and the CHED is the adoption of a standardized academic aptitude examination for admission aside from neuro-psychiatry, medical, agility test and interview. CHED may be involved in the formulation of the testing mechanism and the evaluation itself, to assess the intellectual facility of prospective trainees/students. 9. Education Agencies and the Congress Coordinating mechanisms in relation with the Congress, both House of Representatives and the Senate, will function as capacity-enabler to lobby legislative agenda for education. The Coordinating Body may function as the Lobby Coordinating Committee. This committee is tasked to develop and pursue legislative agenda for education in recognition of the need for a continuing interrelationship between legislative branch of the government and education government agencies. By coordinating the lobby efforts for education, the education sector will have systematic and synchronized measures in advancing education priority policy recommendations that necessitate enabling legislations. CREATING OPTIONS The Philippine Educational system today is being managed by three separate agencies of government, each having its own focus. Going by the term trifocalized education system, the basic education level is managed by the Department of Education (DepEd). At the post-secondary or tertiary level, technical education is handled by the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) and higher education is supervised by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED). One of the significant recommendations during the First Biennial National Congress on Education is the need to harmonize the activities of the three education agencies, especially at the policy level in order to create a seamless, 314
343 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps borderless and porous Philippine education system. At the program level, the education system, from basic to technical education to higher education level, should progressively prepare the individual for productive employment in the labor market. With the move to standardize the curriculum of the day-care programs for five-year old children, this ultimately becomes the entry level to the Main Education Highway. At this level, there is already a felt need to address the requirements of drop-outs. The drop-out issue becomes more apparent at the elementary level where cohort survival at the Grade 6 level has been registered at 66 out of every 100 pupils starting at Grade 1. Of this number only 43 are expected to complete the secondary level and out of this only 21 are expected to graduate from the tertiary level, 14 with degrees in higher education and 7 earning vocational qualifications in technical education. Drop-outs from the basic education level will have to be attended to with an effective Accreditation and Equivalency Program (A & E) now being implemented by the DepEd. Drop-outs from the tertiary level should benefit from the Expanded Tertiary Education and Equivalency Program (ETEEAP) which is being run by the Commission on Higher Education. Both interventions will have to be seriously pursued as receptacles for the high drop-out figures that still prevail in the system. The promulgation by the President of the implementation of a seamless tertiary education system through Executive Order 358 has given TESDA and CHED the needed boost to pursue the promotion of ladderized education programs with embedded vocational qualifications at the lower years. The strategy ensures that students who fail to complete their degree programs, for one reason or another, can still earn vocational qualifications and be certified accordingly by TESDA, thus allowing them to compete for jobs in the labor market. Eventually, under more favorable conditions, these students can go back and continue their studies until they earn their degrees since the vocational qualifications are given equivalent credits. With the eventual completion of their degrees, they can apply for licensure examinations with the Professional Regulation Commission to allow them to practice in the regulated professions. A number of issues continue to prevail in the implementation of the ladderized education program. While the vocational qualifications which are embedded in the degree programs are based on the competency standards promulgated by TESDA, such competency standards are not well defined in many of the higher education degree programs. 315
344 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 1. State of Affairs in Philippine Education Some developments have brought to fore certain concerns that demand attention and appropriate action. The President has issued Executive Order 694, intended to create an environment that will facilitate the progressive implementation of the ladderized education program. Higher education institutions opting to ladderize their degree programs may do so without the need to secure a permit from either CHED or TESDA. Such a liberal policy is premised on two major conditions, first, that the concerned program must have been previously recognized by CHED and second, that the program is covered by a model curriculum promulgated by CHED and TESDA. TESDA and CHED are set to adopt appropriate implementing guidelines that will give impetus to the implementation of the President s intent and directive. Part of the President s expressed concerns is on associate programs which, she declared, should be under the supervision of CHED while short courses should be under TESDA. This issue will have to be appreciated in the context of the developments cited above, and appropriate recommendations are outlined in the following sections. Perhaps, one concern that will put the other issues in proper perspective is the proposed establishment of a two-track tertiary education system, leading to a distinct university system, on the one hand, and a polytechnic system, on the other. 2. The Parallel Academic Streams On the basis of the economic underpinnings of the Philippine Main Education Highway, Filipino families who invest in the education of their children must get fair returns on their investment. To ensure that this is achieved, all young Filipinos going through the education and training system must be provided with a number of options to allow them and their parents to make realistic decisions given their own particular circumstances. With the PTFE s creation and their formulation of the Philippine Main Education Highway, one major aspect for harmonization and synchronization is in the full adoption and implementation of the parallel streams in tertiary education. This parallel stream will essentially create structural changes in academic programs, where, tertiary education courses or programs will be classified under two areas, namely: university and polytechnic or tek bok. 316
345 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Quality assurance, acceptability, and governance are also areas which will receive foundational changes with the implementation of the two-track system The University Stream University courses should be developed along disciplines that require heavy concentration of mathematics, the basic sciences, research, and the humanities. University courses should consist and be limited to the following: medicine, dentistry, optometry, engineering, accountancy, architecture, chemistry, biology, physics, geology, biotechnology, veterinary medicine, fisheries, forestry, agricultural sciences, pharmacy, law, and teacher education for secondary school teachers. Later, other courses may be added to the list as may be determined by CHED. As of now, the enrolment in these proposed university courses is about 15 percent of the total higher education enrolment. Having this smaller number of university students, various forms of assistance can be made more focused on areas where graduates are needed most for national development and global competitiveness particularly in programs that will support towards the attainment of a knowledge-based economy. The assistance will include the students in technology courses Tek-Bok Stream Under the parallel system, technology courses should focus on areas related to manipulative skills, arts and applied sciences. These technology courses should be the major domain of the polytechnic area-- although universities can also offer these college/technology courses. At the secondary education level, there are current initiatives to improve and enhance the delivery of vocational training programs in selected secondary schools. This is expected to address the needs of secondary school leavers who are not able to proceed to the tertiary level to acquire basic job competencies that will make them employable in entry level jobs in the labor market. These initiatives are expected to be effective since national competency standards defined by industry and officially promulgated by TESDA serve as the basis for curriculum design and delivery. Secondary school graduates from the vocational programs may submit themselves for competency assessment by TESDA and earn a National Certificate (NC) depending on the particular vocational qualifications that they acquire. Within the Tek-bok Stream, three essential options have been identified that will provide tertiary-education bound students with an array of choices 317
346 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy based on their perceived or real circumstances. By institutionalizing these options, the secondary school graduate is presented with three equal options that he or she can choose from, considering his own aptitude, inclinations, economic circumstances and employment objectives. 3. Institutionalizing Four Options at the Tertiary Education Level for High School Graduates At the secondary education level, there are current initiatives to improve and enhance the delivery of vocational training programs in selected secondary schools. This is expected to address the needs of secondary school leavers who are not able to proceed to the tertiary level to acquire basic job competencies that will make them employable in entry level jobs in the labor market. We believe that these initiatives will be effective since national competency standards defined by industry and officially promulgated by TESDA serve as the basis for curriculum design and delivery. Secondary school graduates from the vocational programs may submit themselves for competency assessment by TESDA and earn a National Certificate (NC) depending on the particular vocational qualifications that they acquire. At the tertiary level, we have identified four essential options that will provide tertiary-education bound students with an array of choices based on their perceived or real circumstances. By institutionalizing the proposed four options, the secondary school graduate is presented with four equal options that he or she can choose from, considering his own aptitude, inclinations, economic circumstances and employment objectives. Any of the four options can lead to a bachelor s degree, a master s degree and ultimately to a doctorate degree in either of the two general education streams in the tertiary level. These four equally-desirable options in a rationalized and harmonized Philippine education system are represented in the figure on the next page The First Option Of course, the obvious and still-preferred option is a bachelor s degree program in a higher education institution. This option is traditionally availed of in the multitude of colleges and universities, public and private that offer degree programs in the social and natural sciences, in business and finance, in arts and sciences, in various fields of engineering and in medical and allied medical professions. 318
347 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps In this regard, there is a proposal offered by the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education to create a two-year pre-university program for those who will fail in the pre-baccalaureate examination that will be mandatory for all academic degree-bound secondary school leavers. Such a proposal must be deliberated upon in the context of these four options The Second Option The second option is the pursuit of a ladderize bachelor s degree program in accordance with Executive Order 358. Based on eight pilot disciplines, including nursing, hotel and restaurant services. Maritime, criminology, engineering, technician teacher education, agriculture, and fisheries and information technology, TVET qualifications are embedded in the early years of the degree programs. If, for one reason or another, a student fails to complete the ladderized degree program, he or she, nevertheless, earns a job qualification that should allow him or her to successfully go through competency assessment leading to a national certificate to be issued by TESDA. The national certificate renders the student employable and competitive in the job market for his or her particular qualification. The TVET qualifications are credited towards the completion of the desired degree program The Third Option The third option for high school graduates is to go for short-term, job-oriented TVET qualification courses offered in technical vocational institutions on the basis of minimum national standards promulgated by TESDA. At the moment, there are some one hundred and sixty two national qualifications covered by such standards which are being offered in TVET institutions, public and private. One distinct advantage of this choice is its clear job orientation, since the short courses are intended to lead to the acquisition of competencies required for specific occupations in the job market. Also, these courses can be completed in a short period of time, often not more than six months, and job immersion is a common feature of such programs. On-the-job-training introduces the young trainee into the world of work and often this becomes the desired gateway to a regular job in the labor market. There may, however, be some downside. Students who complete the TVET qualification programs do not earn credits for general education subjects. General education modules are integrated to the short-term programs as 319
348 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy contextual inputs but not as separate subjects. We believe that a Bridging Program can be developed by CHED and TESDA, working in tandem, so that a clear pathway leading to a degree program can be established for young Filipinos who opt to pursue TVET qualifications and get a job, as a first step, before eventually proceeding to a degree program, if they so desire, at a later time The Fourth Option The limitation observed in the preceding option is somehow addressed in the fourth option. In this option, TVET programs are structured as certificate and diploma courses in the context of the Philippine National Qualifications Framework (PNQF) that was adopted by the National Coordinating Council for Education (NCCE). The certificate and diploma courses include the necessary general education subjects which are regular components of the early years of degree programs. A student who completes the TVET certificate or diploma courses will earn full credits, depending on the duration of the program. Certificate courses may run for one or two years and Diploma courses may be offered for three years. This means that students who complete the diploma courses will be allowed to proceed to a degree program at the fourth year level. One concrete example is the case of the degree program in bachelor of technician teacher education wherein the student who completes a three-year diploma program can proceed to one additional year of college education involving professional education subjects. This leads to the bachelor s degree in technician teacher education. The pursuit of relevant and appropriate master s and doctorate degrees should be a matter of course under any of the options described above The Associate Courses Given the above options, we believe that associate courses, as they have been traditionally known, and viewed in the context of such options, are virtually rendered irrelevant. From a practical perspective, it is rather obvious that students who complete these associate courses are simply getting ready for the completion of the rest of the degree program and really not job-ready, especially given stringent job requirements, the fast pace of technology and the ever-demanding challenges of a knowledge-based economy. 320
349 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 4. A Truly Rationalized and Harmonized Education System Finally, given all the options outlined above, it is obvious that the way to go is a tertiary education system that offers young Filipino secondary school graduates a wide array of options, depending on his or her aptitude, interest, and economic circumstances and employment objectives. The proposed rationalized and harmonized tertiary education system puts into proper perspective the complementary roles of DepEd, CHED, and TESDA in preparing our people for the challenges of a borderless and flattened world, one that demands knowledge and competencies relevant to a global economic order. Needless to say, the administration of a battery of aptitude and interest tests before the completion of secondary education will go a long way towards guiding a young person towards the appropriate choice Policy Recommendations Broad and full implementation of the four options for secondary school graduates described above necessitates the adoption of a set of fundamental policy recommendations that are critical to the rationalization and harmonization of the education system: Implementation of a Truly Competency-based Education System There is ample literature that indicates that our elementary and secondary education system is competency-based, that students who complete basic education have the capacity for what Friedman describes as self-learning and learning to learn. However, do the outcomes of basic education tell us that much? Technical education is pronounced to be competency-based and job oriented since vocational qualification programs are based on minimum standards defined by industry. The assessment and certification rate of graduates of vocational qualification programs indicate a relatively moderate figure of 73.9%, pointing to a need to further strengthen and improve the delivery of competency-based programs to produce certified workers who can be competitive in the job market. There are also expressed intentions to define competency standards for the professions, so that degree programs and the corresponding licensure examinations can really be tailored to the needs of business and industry. The 321
350 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy translation of such intentions to define the competency standards for the professions is hardly noticeable at the moment. Given these observations, we propose that the entire education system, as pictured in the Main Education Highway, be truly designed and delivered under the competency-based system. Under such system, curriculum design is based on competency standards defined by industry. The same set of competency standards become the basis for the development of assessment instruments so that what is taught is actually what is tested. This is a truly effective way to unify, rationalize and harmonize the entire education system that will be effectively linked to business and industry Formal Adoption and Implementation of the Philippine National Qualification Framework (PNQF) The implementation of a truly competency-based education system must be undertaken in the context of the Philippine National Qualification Framework (PNQF), a concept similar to those in many other countries, which was adopted by the National Coordinating Council for Education sometime in The PNQF is a step towards mainstreaming into educational movements in different parts of the globe. Such movements redefine quality education in terms of learning outcomes or in terms of specific knowledge and skills that learners can demonstrate. It involves a shift from defining quality in terms of inputs (e.g. faculty credentials, number of reference materials, etc.) and processes (e.g. teacher-student ratio, contact hours, types of learning activities) to defining quality in terms of outputs, meaning, what students have learned. A significant feature of this movement relates to how student learning outputs are characterized. Instead of measuring student learning in terms of curricular units, it is described in terms of actual demonstrated knowledge and skills. In concrete terms, student learning is measured in terms of the types of skills a student is qualified to perform on his own Aggressive Implementation of the Accreditation and Equivalency (A & E) Program by DepEd and a Strong Competency-based Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation (ETEEAP) Program by CHED As previously mentioned, effective receptacles to get back basic education and tertiary education drop-outs into mainstream education and training must be put in place. Existing mechanisms like the Accreditation and Equivalency 322
351 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Program (A & E) now being implemented by the DepEd and the Expanded Tertiary Education and Equivalency Program (ETEEAP) which is being run by the Commission on Higher Education, will have to be strengthened and broadly implemented to benefit more people. However, given the advocacy for the adoption of a truly competency-based education and training system in the country, these accreditation and equivalency interventions will have to be pursued on the basis of industrydefined competency standards, instead of just curricular subjects and credits. Figure 15: The Philippine National Qualifications Framework The Philippine National Qualifications Framework DIPLOMA PROGRAMS DOCTORATE DEGREE CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS VOCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS PROGRAMS 4 TH YEAR NC4 NC3 NC2 NC1 LADDERIZATION PATHWAYS MASTER S DEGREE BACHELOR S DEGREE LADDERIZED DEGREE PROGRAM 3 RD YEAR 2 ND YEAR SECONDARY EDUCATION 1 ST YEAR ELEMENTARY EDUCATION EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION 5. LEVELING THE PLAYING FIELD According to John Brooks Slaughter, President Emeritus of Occidental College and President and CEO of National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc. (NACME), the uneven distribution of wealth in a country has an impact upon the preparedness of the poor and many minority students for college and for their retention to graduation. They are far more likely to 323
352 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy come from less well-educated families, to attend the worst schools, to be taught by the least capable teachers and to suffer from the low expectations imposed upon them by society. Fewer than half of them will graduate from high school and those who do go on to college are far more likely to enroll in a two-year school than a four-year one. Access to education and training opportunities by the greater number of our people must be ensured so that they can acquire the competencies needed to enhance their competitiveness in the job market. Filipino families have always put the education of their children on top of their agenda so that appropriate measures will have to be adopted to allow them to fulfill such priority agenda. In the guise of widening and improving access to education in both basic and tertiary levels, it has been alleged that Congress and LGUs have set up SCUs and LCUs all over the country. Except for a number of educational institutions established, these institutions have been exploited by public officials as an excuse to make use of public funds; use public works and schoolbuilding funds; put their wards, supporters and relatives in the faculty, administration and overall plantilla; advertise themselves by affixing their names or their kin s on their school name; and perpetuate political dynasties. Certain issues or concern has been seriously raised over the quality of education delivered by the public and private HEIs. This is despite the practice that the private schools are heavily regulated by CHED that grades them according to their accreditation levels even if SUC and LCUs hardly subject themselves to peer accreditation. The capital expenditures that a private school must make in order to stay competitive while delivering quality education, the better to ensure its graduates pass the licensure exams are factors indicative of compliance with CHED regulations. However in the case of SUCs and LCUs CHED has not ordered its closure for a consistently poor passing rate in the board. In this paper three issues are presented which are considered critical areas that need to be defined as the level the playing field between public and private higher education institutions (HEIs), namely: program offering; financial subsidies; and regulatory management Program Offerings State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) are categorized by their flagship programs and thus, focus to achieve excellence in these courses, but without duplicating courses already offered by the private HEIs. Competition between course offerings of SUCs and private institutions should be minimized in 324
353 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps general. SUCs should strictly follow the criteria when offering courses outside of their mandates. Such courses should not be subsidized and SUCs should jointly define parameters with private HEIs on the school fees to be set, on procedures to be followed prior to the introduction and continued implementation of these courses. All tertiary institutions should follow the same set of parameters, i.e., CHED requirements, as part of the goal of leveling the playing field. All LGU Colleges and Universities (LCUs) must comply with minimum program standards set by CHED. SUCs should take an advancing role in offering courses and not compete with the private HEIs; they should collaborate, not compete Financing Scheme It is clear that the dramatic increase in resources necessary to transform the education system cannot be provided solely by the State. Other stakeholders, particularly students, parents, churches and entrepreneurs, must supplement the increase in the state s budgetary allocation. The Task Force does not have the capacity to identify with any degree of authority on how additional funds are to be sourced, or indeed, determine whether it is within the financial capacity of the country. The Task Force, however, has the mandate to investigate, evaluate, monitor and recommend to H.E. President of the Republic of the Philippines the optimal mix of new funding sources that are required to provide the requisite resources. In this context the corresponding recommendations or strategic initiatives are being presented on how the financial subsidies and additional expenditure can addressed, at least in part Budget Allocation Formula Clearly the rationalization of the public higher education system must be based on a system of financing these institutions which reflect fulfillment of student demand, equity of access, and program considerations, as well as greater accountability and efficiency. Performance-based budgeting is therefore necessary in this regard. It is in this view that the Normative Financing Formula (NFF) was developed by CHED, NEDA, the Department of Budget Management (DBM) in 2004 for the allocation of government subsidy to public higher education institutions. While the NFF employs a number of parameters in determining the level of funding for each SUC, it does not consider the larger perspective of the relevance of an SUC s programs to the needs of business and industry within its 325
354 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy geographical location. There is therefore, a need to refine the NFF, with emphasis on institutional performance for determining level of subsidy (performance-based budgeting), and determining possible resources partnerships beyond government appropriations, with private entities to accord contributions or donations for institutional advancement. Likewise, the potential of using the same parameters used in the NFF in granting financial subsidy to private higher education institutions, to pave the way for a leveling of the playing field between the private and public higher education institutions in their course offerings and request for government financial subsidy should be explored. The Government Assistance to Students and Teachers in Private Education (GASTPE) is a subsidy to private high schools. Under the program, which is managed by the Fund for Assistance to Private Education (FAPE) for the DepEd, the government buys up seats in accredited private high schools at a rate of P4,000 per student per year. It accommodates children from families with an annual income of less than P144,000 or 12,000 a month. This program should be expanded, given its importance as a proven means of leveling the playing field and reducing cost distortions Reform the budget process for SUCs: Establishing a 3-year budget cycle for SUCs Based on Republic Act 7722, otherwise known as the Higher Education Act of 1994, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) is mandated to review and recommend the budget of SUCs. This budget review and recommendation process may be undertaken by a budget review team created in each region. The budget board may require an SUC to justify its course offerings, old and new, and whether or not mandated by its charter. The SUC may explain to the budget review team why a certain course or academic program should be offered in its area of coverage. Each program unit or any unit of the SUC for that matter must be supported by a separate detailed budget. The generic statement in the budget such as for higher education program should be set aside. The budget review team may be chaired by the CHED and with representatives of each of the following as members: Regional Development Council (RDC), COCOPEA, ECOP or PCCI in the region, and the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE). This three-year budget cycle may be implemented on a pilot basis for state universities and colleges. They will be required to prepare a three-year strategic plan on which their budget will be based. Once the plan and the 326
355 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps budget are approved, the Congress will provide yearly appropriations without need for the officials of the SUCs to defend their budgets year by year. With this scheme, planning and budgeting will be more focused, and obviously a great amount of money will be saved from numerous trips made by SUC officials to attend budget deliberations both at the lower house and the senate Grant tax credit for educational expenses A system to address and expand provision of tax credits to business and corporations or individuals who will provide support for educational programs of public and private institutions or individual students, at all levels should be designed. Direct expenses made for education may be granted equivalent tax credits. The tax incentives may apply to individuals and organizations both profit and non-profit organizations. This may also apply to families who spend for the education of their children. The expenses shall cover tuition, books, learning materials, transportation expenses, and living allowances. The implementing guidelines may be prepared jointly by the CHED, the TESDA, DepEd, National Economic Development Authority (NEDA), and the Department of Finance (DOF) Improvement of the Financing of the Education System Especially at the Tertiary Level The expansion of the coverage of the scholarship and student financial assistance programs under the Government Assistance to Students and Teachers in Private Education (GASTPE) is one significant step in this direction. The proposal forwarded by the CHED Chairman, Secretary Romulo Neri, on a Contributions-backed Educational Loans System through the GSIS, SSS and Pag-Ibig Fund should be pursued. The idea of an individual contributor s balance sheet and equity, both novel and practicable, deserves support and consideration. Education, for the first time in history and under the administration of H.E. President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, takes a front seat in the 2008 National Budget securing the highest allocation at PhP200 billion. The statement of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, sets the tone and direction for government to re-evaluate the level of resources it has committed to the education system. The improved systems of accountability under Accountability for Performance at all levels are critical pre-requisites for the ability of the system to absorb and provide the anticipated returns on the levels of increased investment in education that is required. 327
356 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Improve the Student Loan Program Throughout the years since the establishment of the Educational Loan Fund (ELF) under Presidential Decree 932 in 1976, less than one percent of student loans under the Philippines Study Now Pay Later Plan (SNPLP) has been repaid. Because of this, it becomes very tempting for policy makers to say that it would be better for the government to use the money allocated to SNPLP for scholarships instead and forget about collecting repayment. However, that suggestion is not in accordance with the Constitution considering that under Section 3, Article XIV, the government is mandated to: Establish and maintain a system of scholarship grants, student loan programs, subsidies and other incentives which shall be available to deserving students in both public and private schools, especially to the underprivileged; [Underscoring supplied]. The old SNPLP was intended to extend financial assistance to students in both public and private schools, as provided for in the above-quoted provision of the Constitution, and reinforced by Section 7 of PD 932, which states: Any Filipino citizen who graduates from a duly authorized secondary school, whether public and private, desiring to pursue further studies may avail of assistance under any of the schemes, the basic consideration being he is poor but deserving With the enactment in July 1988 of RA 6728 or the Government Assistance for Students and Teachers in Private Education (GASTPE), another dimension of the problem on student loan came about. The GASTPE law has an Education Loan Fund (ELF) component, and the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) implemented the ELF for students in the private sector, as mandated. But apparently the CHED took this to mean the new Study Now Pay Later Plan (SNPLP) and since then there has been no appropriations for student loan for students in public higher education institutions (HEIs.) Thus, during President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo s meeting with education officials from Regions 1, 2, 3 and the Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR) on December 31, 2007 at the Mansion House, Baguio City, a proposal to restore the SNPLP for State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) was forwarded. Two major but contrasting objectives for loan schemes may be identified Cost sharing Public universities throughout the world, and particularly in developing countries, are underfinanced. Budgetary parsimony has resulted in public universities turning to greater cost recovery, in an effort to tap alternative 328
357 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps sources of funding. This may take the form of higher, more realistic tuition fees or increased payments for subsidized lodgings and meals. Recourse to the banking system for a regular loan to ease this payment burden may be unavailable to students; banks are notoriously loath to lend for educational programs- a clear case of market failure. Hence, there is a role for a government backed student loan scheme to fill this gap Social Targeting These schemes are concerned explicitly and directly with enhancing the access to higher education for the poor. Where targeted specifically at disadvantaged groups, loan schemes (particularly where subsidized), can lead to greater access of the poor to university education, thus contributing to social equity. Student loan programs, thus, become a means for achieving the goal of enhancing accessibility enabling students entry to universities through the assistance (which implies to some a need for high degree of subsidization) and repayment scheme Proper mix of scholarship and student loan Assuming that we need to increase the allocation for student loans, the appropriate amount should be determined. At one end of the student financial assistance spectrum, a country may opt to convert its scholarship program to student loan program. For example, in 1992 the Venezuelan Scholarship Foundation, FUNDAYACUCHO, was converted into a loan institution. The Philippines may be considered to be at the opposite end of the spectrum the SNPLP constituting less than one percent of the whole student financial assistance fund (P7.2 M out of P1.1 B. total allocation for all student financial assistance programs for SY ) Management Approaches to Student Debt Make the process simple. In Australia, New Zealand, and the UK loans repayment are administered through the federal income tax system, so that income can be easily taken into account when calculating rates of repayment. Low or no interest loans. The Netherlands charged 3.05% interest in New Zealand charges a rate equal to the government s cost of borrowing, but waives it for low-income students. The United Kingdom charges zero real interest, tying loans to the rate of inflation. Starting July 2007, the US charges 329
358 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy a fixed rate of 6.8% interest on most student loans. No payments until earnings reach a minimum level. Many countries do not require borrowers to make payments if their income is below a certain threshold. For a single borrower in Australia, it is $A35,000 (about $US 26,000). In Germany it is 11,520 (about $US 14,000). In New Zealand it is $NZ 16,172 (about $US 11,000). Link payment size to income. In New Zealand, after the borrower s income passes the threshold described above, their loan payments are 10% of whatever they earn above that amount. In the UK s new system, borrowers pay 9% of income above the threshold. In Australia, the percentage of income a borrower is required to repay per month rises with income of which 4% is the minimum and 8% is the maximum. Set a maximum repayment period. In some countries, outstanding debts are cancelled after a certain number of years. In the US, the government can take money out of retirees Social Security checks if payments have not been made for their student loans. Sweden and UK have a 25-year period, while Germany has 20 years, and the Netherlands has a 15-year period coverage. PTFE recommends that the implementing agency for student loan should consider the above approaches in designing the implementation plan for the improved student loan program Policy Options for Student Loans Right mix between the amount of student loans and scholarship grants should be made available by government. The range could be 100 percent scholarship and zero percent for student loans or vice-versa. At present, the student loan allocation amounts to Php7,293,500 out of a total Php1,101,204,500 covering all student financial assistance programs or0.66 percent. PTFE recommends that 20 percent of the whole student financial assistance program be devoted to student loans. Another policy option is between social targeting and cost sharing. Government subsidy usually accompanies social targeting whereas cost sharing is associated with full cost recovery. PTFE recommends a policy of social targeting, with greater focus on the poorest of the poor. PTFE also recommends that a component of the student loans aimed at third and fourth year college students should be the target under the Student Assistance for Financing Education for Strong Republic (SAFE4SR). Majority of the students drop out in the homestretch simply for the reason that their families can no longer financially sustain their schooling. Obviously, their family s investment 330
359 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps have ballooned at this stage. Thus, making loans available to these students will increase their chances of completing their degrees without dropping out of school. PTFE recommends that the loan repayment be income contingent, following the Australian model. Income contingent repayment scheme allows students to pay his/her loan after getting a job, graduates pay higher percentage as one s income goes higher. The present loan repayment collection scheme has produced less than one percent repayment based on the data provided by the Office of Student Services, Commission on Higher Education. PTFE recommends that the student loan system be linked with the SSS and the GSIS for students whose parents work in the private and public sector, respectively Proposed Contributions-backed Education Loan Program CHED spearheaded the formulation of a student loan program known as the Contribution-backed Education Loan Program. This program enables members of GSIS, SSS, and Pag-ibig fund to borrow against contributions made for education purposes, under preferential terms. Comments and inputs from GSIS, SSS and Pag-ibig funds are being solicited to ensure that the program will be viable and implementable. The scheme is as follows: 1. Taps the GSIS, SSS and Pag-ibig to fund the program, and collect loan repayments. 2. Legal obstacles are addressed by congressional revisions of the mandates of these institutions, or by Executive Order for internal policies. 3. Member s Balance Sheet as Loan Guarantee Members with substantial accumulated contributions, have EQUITY in the system which may be used to guarantee loans used for the education of a son, daughter or close relative. It should be possible for these GFIs to draw up a BALANCE SHEET for each of their members Member s Balance Sheet A member s Balance Sheet shows the Net Value of his contributions, defined as the total of all his contributions and earnings, less unsecured loan balances and unpaid penalties. His Net Value has real value and is already in the possession of the lender. This value may be used to secure loans for 331
360 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy education (student loan) purposes. Education Loan Process Member applies for an Education Loan, secured by his contributions. Multiple availment (e.g. every start of semester) is allowed. GFIs determine the maximum loanable amount based on a percentage of total contributions less unsecured loan balances (his NET VALUE). School fees are paid direct to the school. A reasonable interest is applied on the loan. Member gets monthly deductions to pay off the loan Member-Beneficiary Relationship Members related to the beneficiary up to the 3rd degree of consanguinity may sponsor the same student. Multiple members (even from different GFIs) may also sponsor the same student - A single sponsor may not have enough Net value to fully support a student Loan Repayment Transfer to Beneficiary When a student graduates and starts working, the loan balance and its repayment get transferred to his account after 24 months of work / contributions. Income-contingent repayment schemes may apply However, the Education Loan continues to be secured by the Net Value of the original loan Member-Borrowers, as shown by their Balance Sheets, until the loan is repaid Build Up Net Value thru Special Accounts A Member may choose to build up his Net Value, as shown in his Member Balance Sheet by making additional voluntary contributions to a Special Account. These contributions are essentially member SAVINGS deposited for the GFIs to manage. OFWs may be a prime market for these Special Accounts. Contributions-backed loans, other than Education Loans, may then be accommodated. 332
361 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Special Accounts may mirror Personal Equity & Retirement Account (PERA) features ; House Bill No and Senate Bill No. 1882: An Act Establishing a Provident Personal Savings Plan, known as the Personal Equity and Retirement Account ( PERA ) Aims to promote capital market development and savings mobilization Voluntary contributions up to some maximum annual amount Employer s Contribution allowed as deduction on Gross Income Tax incentives: Tax credit equivalent to 5% of contributions Tax exempt investment income Tax exempt distributions upon retirement or death Within the context of Contributions-back Educational Loans SSS, GSIS and Pag-ibig could be accredited as both Custodian of the funds, and as Investment Manager; Contributions can increase a member s Net Value, and therefore increase his loanable amount. GFI Mandates / Social Security System (SSS) "It is the policy of the State to establish, develop, promote and perfect a sound and viable tax-exempt social security system suitable to the needs of the people throughout the Philippines which shall promote social justice and provide meaningful protection to members and their families against the hazards of disability, sickness, maternity, old age, death and other contingencies resulting in loss of income or financial burden. Toward this end, the State shall endeavor to extend social security protection to workers and their beneficiaries." (Section 2, RA 8282) Government Social Insurance System (GSIS) Mandate The GSIS, created by Commonwealth Act No. 186 passed on November 14, 1936 is mandated to provide and administer the following social security benefits for government employees: compulsory life insurance, optional life insurance, retirement benefits, disability benefits for work-related contingencies and death benefits. In addition, the GSIS is entrusted with the administration of the General Insurance Fund by virtue of R.A. 656 of the Property Insurance Law. It provides 333
362 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy insurance coverage to assets and properties which have government insurable interests. Pag-IBIG Fund Mandate The Pag-Ibig fund is bestowed with twin mandates, namely: Generation of savings; and Provision of affordable housing finance. The need for SUPPORT from other Government Agencies Bureau of Internal Revenue: Access to the BIR database allows the Commission to detect / track lost beneficiaries. Also an alternative way to determine the earning ability of student loan beneficiaries (and therefore his capacity to pay.) Bureau of Immigration & Deportation: By requiring Commission clearance for travel of student loan beneficiaries, the Commission gains another alternate way of detecting / tracking lost beneficiaries. National Bureau of Investigation: There s a good chance that sooner or later, a beneficiary will have a need to obtain an NBI Clearance Apply tuition fee increases only to incoming freshmen In general, increases in tuition and other fees, to be determined by the institution, should apply only to incoming first year students. Types of tuition increases would no longer require consultations. In cases where the institution wishes to increase the tuition fee of students in higher years, consultations with students in the tertiary level and with parents in the secondary level should be conducted. Students and parents should agree with respect to increases in tuition fees in their levels. All documentations required for tuition increases in all year levels shall be issued separately by DepEd, TESDA, and CHED after appropriate public hearings involving their respective stakeholders. 6. MAJOR POINTS FOR HARMONIZATION AND SYNCHRONIZATION 6.1. Quality Assurance In order to nurture innovation, creativity and independent thinking, we recommend that the current rigid and bureaucratic education system be transformed to create a whole new educational environment that would allow greater autonomy and flexibility of individual schools and local administrators 334
363 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps to enable students to have diverse choices regarding their education. The new system may put an end to rigid government control over higher education curricula, tuition fees, therefore allowing our higher educational institutions to become more entrepreneurial, accountable and responsive to industrial needs. This reform agenda being recommended includes improving the quality of faculty, the curricula, benchmarking with international teaching methodologies and techniques, while strengthening support for the under performing students and especially the economically disadvantaged group, as we have envisioned it in the Main Education Highway. Such a liberal environment will be complemented by a well-managed quality assurance system involving not only the aggressive implementation of Executive Orders 705 and 705-A mandating a unified accreditation system with common standards per discipline and supervised by the Commission on Higher Education, but also the operationalization of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System, as recommended by PCER National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS) The NEETS is envisioned to be a reputable body, independent of the three education agencies of government, that can coordinate and harmonize various existing agencies and efforts (public and private) in this field, and assume responsibility for educational assessment at all levels- basic, higher and technical education. The Task Force and the OPAE (mandated under E.O. 652, 632) shall start capacity-building for the establishment of NEETS in 2008 and be made fully operational beginning 2010 as an initial steps towards the strengthening the capabilities in Educational Evaluation and Testing. It is envisioned that with the full operation of the NEETS the strengthening of the university programs in educational assessment and produce core leaders trained locally and abroad. A strategic investment plan will be formulated for the purpose of developing a pool of experts in modern methods of educational assessment, as these have changed immensely in the past decades. The recommendation therefore is to provide scholarships for studies abroad, together with developing strong local Masters and PhD programs in educational assessment. Likewise, future testing instruments may be benchmarked with those in the United States, in Canada, in UK, in Australia, in Singapore, and in Hong Kong. 335
364 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 6.2. Common Standard for Accreditation at the Tertiary Education Level The Task Force and the various educational agencies involved in the accreditation (private included) agreed on the policy proposal for a coordinated council for accreditation with potential capability as a funding agency. Inasmuch as there are five accrediting agencies, the National Congress recommended that the five agencies shall be coordinated through CHED. Among its funding parameters would be to fund schools undergoing accreditation, as well as finance research and other operations of the accrediting agencies for improving their services. Proposed the following: Creation of the Coordinating Council on Accreditation composed of heads/ representatives from the five private accrediting agencies namely: AACUP, ACSCU-AAI, ALCU-COA, PAASCU and PACU-COA to set common accreditation standards. Coordinating Council which includes all education levels to be chaired by a CHED Commissioner. Amend E.O. 705 to include programs accredited by the four other accrediting agencies to be exempted from IQUAME; Guidelines and templates may have to be provided to the schools to ensure the accuracy of the information that they will provide. The IQUAME Technical Working Group is drafting guidelines that will remove provisions that schools have seen as a shortcut to autonomy/ deregulation, or towards university status. This process is intended to focus the limited resources of government to help good schools with no accredited programs toward accredited status. This will make IQUAME a feeder to the Accreditation process, complementing efforts at promoting quality education. E.O. 705 was issued subjecting only non-accredited private schools to the Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation (IQUAME) of CHED (E.O. 705 was later amended through E.O. 705-A). Private schools are now subjected to the Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation (IQUAME) of CHED based on E.O Programs accredited by the four other agencies shall likewise be exempted from IQUAME with the issuance of E.O. 705-A. 336
365 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 6.3. Upgrade the scientific development of tests for PRC A professional body should be established preferably within the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) or external to the Commission to serve as internal check and balance mechanism that will solely handle testing instruments of all professional board exams. Tasks may include item analysis on a continuing basis, item banking and establishing as many parallel forms as can be to reduce to a great extent the possibility of cheating during exams. RA 8981 should be amended to disassociate from board examiners the specialized task of formulating and designing the technical characteristics of professional licensure examinations to ensure the integrity of the exams. PRC, together with CHED, should convene quarterly consultations with the program champions and other key informants of industry/professional associations of specific disciplines. The PRC should benchmark its examinations with industry and global standards Improving the Scientific Development of PRC Examinations A professional body should be established preferably within the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) or external to the Commission to serve as internal check and balance mechanism that will solely handle testing instruments of all professional board exams. Tasks may include item analysis on a continuing basis, item banking and establishing as many parallel forms as can be to reduce to a great extent the possibility of cheating during exams. RA 8981 should be amended to disassociate from board examiners the specialized task of formulating and designing the technical characteristics of professional licensure examinations to ensure the integrity of the exams. PRC, together with CHED, should convene quarterly consultations with the program champions and other key informants of industry/ professional associations of specific disciplines. The PRC should benchmark its examinations with industry and global standards. To upgrade the scientific development of tests in all professions: Establish a professional body in the PRC that will solely handle testing instruments of all professions ( item analysis on a continuing basis, item banking and establishing as many paralleled forms as can be to reduce to a great extent the possibility of cheating during exams. Amend the law RA 8981 to dissociate the specialized task of the technical characteristics in the formulation and design of exam results to ensure the integrity of the exams 337
366 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy PRC, together with CHED, to convene a quarterly consultation with the program champions and other key informants of industry/professional associations of specific disciplines CHED and PRC have agreed to coordinate closely with industry on standards setting and content for courses that require licensure examinations to ensure alignment with the technical and scientific requirements of business and industry. PRC will also look into upgrading its examination system for all professions and into updating licensure examinations to respond to the continuing rapid changes in the practice of the professions. Benchmark PRC examinations with global standards 6.4. Strengthening the implementation of the Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP) The Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP), established through E.O. 330, provides opportunities for students who drop out from college to finish their baccalaureate degrees through the evaluation and accreditation of knowledge they have acquired in the workplace. The Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP) is an educational assessment scheme which recognizes knowledge, skills and prior learning obtained by individuals from non-formal and informal educational experiences. By establishing equivalency competence standards and a comprehensive assessment system employing written test, interview, skill, demonstration and other creative assessment methodologies, deputized Higher Education Institution (HEI) may administer competency-based evaluation. The mandate to implement the program is embodied in Executive Order 330 issued by President Fidel V. Ramos on May 13, 1996 as an offshoot of the recommendation of the First Employment Summit in ETEEAP Objectives and Policies The Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program, as defined by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), has the following objectives: To accredit and assess prior non-formal and informal learning of individual towards the granting of equivalency certificates and awards in higher education starting 1997; To fully develop the system of equivalency and accreditation in higher 338
367 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps education as a bridging mechanism for the flexible entry and exchange between the non-formal and informal systems of higher learning from To implement the accreditation and equivalency program in ten (10) priority disciplines in forty (40) public and private higher education institutions all over the country by 1998; and To award higher education certificates and degrees to at least one hundred (100) deserving graduates each year starting in ETEEAP implements the following policies: Ensuring the highest standards of quality that are acceptable to employers and academe, consistent with international standards of practice of professions; Non-discrimination to entry of participants to the program; Fairness, creativity, and appropriateness of the assessment process; Adherence to the highest principles of integrity and excellence; Partnership between the industry, professional associations, professional regulatory bodies and the academe; Promotion of career guidance, self-evaluation and further competency enhancement. 7. REFORMS TO STRENGTHEN SUCs CAPABILITIES 7.1. Adopting a Common Admission Test for SUCs The state universities and colleges should agree on a common entrance examination for all entering freshmen. One option is the adoption of the UP College Admission Test (UPCAT) in its entirety, or with some modification. Of course, the SUCs may opt to come up with a new set of examinations. In any case the individual SUC shall have the option to determine its own cut-off score. Having a common admission test for SUCs will accord students savings on entrance examination fees. Also, a common admission examination offers a great opportunity for educational research Piloting e-learning as an effective delivery system in SUCs Some SUCs shall be identified to demonstrate how e-learning is implemented. They shall document the technical, financial and administrative aspects of operating the e-learning delivery system. They shall produce prototype e-learning materials. They shall also design a training program for 339
368 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy the personnel of institutions willing to embark on e-learning, including the preparation of training manuals Establishing a 3-year budget cycle for SUCs This three-year budget cycle may be implemented on a pilot basis for state universities and colleges. They will be required to prepare a three-year strategic plan on which their budget will be based. Once the plan and the budget are approved, the Congress will provide yearly appropriations without need for the officials of the SUCs to defend their budgets year by year. With this scheme, planning and budgeting will be more focused, and obviously a great amount of money will be saved from numerous trips made by SUC officials to attend budget deliberations both at the lower house and the senate Incorporating Training Performance of Candidates for SUC Presidents in the Criteria for Selection Process There shall be established a training institute for those who want to become SUC presidents. The performance of the candidates during the training shall be made one of the criteria for the selection of a president. It is proposed that training performance be given as high as thirty percent weight in order to lessen subjectivity in the evaluation process and lessen external influence in the selection. The curriculum shall be based on the actual work and functions of an SUC president. Also to be considered in the training are the traits of innovativeness, creativity and the candidate s vision for a college or university. The implementing rules and regulations for this training process shall be jointly prepared by CHED, selected representatives of SUCs and the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education. 8. EXPANDING THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE TEC WITH THE ADDITIONAL MEMBERSHIP OF THE TESDA EO 729 was issued by H.E. President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo entitled: Adding the Director General of the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority, or a duly designated representative, as additional member of the Teacher Education Council. This is in recognition of the need to include the technical-vocational sector of education to the TEC and to educate and train technical-vocational teachers of unquestionable integrity and competence and in line with the objective to strengthen existing mechanisms to complement the role of the Presidential Task Force for Education. Such decision is necessary or relevant to the vision of synchronizing and harmonizing the entire education system. 340
369 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 9. STRENGTHEN THE KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM INITIATED BY THE OPAE As part of the monitoring function of the government, the knowledge management system (KMS) at the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education (OPAE) shall be developed further. One important task that the KMS must perform is to provide information regarding higher education institutions, not only on the status of their capability to deliver education programs in terms of faculty strength, library and laboratory facilities, but also on passing rate in board examinations, other aspects such as on employability of graduates, and general public perception on these HEIs and courses. This information will serve as basis for parents, students and other stakeholders in making decisions, for example regarding the choice of course to pursue or institution to enroll in. This information on the HEIs shall be an offshoot of a close monitoring to be done by government. Hence, there is need to strengthen the process of inspection of HEIs. At the same time there should be a strong resolve on the part of government to make the process as transparent as possible, by involving disinterested parties such as civic organizations in the inspection process. With such an efficient information system and transparent processes, government may give recognition to good performing institutions and at the same time order the closure of programs or schools that need to be weeded out. 10. MONITORING AND EVALUATION E.O. No. 652 provides the legal basis for the establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluation Scheme. The overarching goal is through an effective institutionalized monitoring and evaluation scheme we ensure that resources are properly channeled to corresponding programs and policies are implemented to achieve the desired results which will redound to zero dropout and improve the quality of Philippine education vis-à-vis harmonization of the three educational agencies. It will likewise track the impact of the implementation of agreements for tighter linkage with the private sector like the business and industry lead by the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI) and other major stakeholders like the Philippine Regulatory Commission, Local Government Units, Policymakers (Senate and Congress) and International donor communities. The PTFE, together with the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education (OPAE) is viewed, in this context, to serve as an external monitoring and evaluation body and partnering with the internal monitoring and 341
370 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy evaluation unit of the three education agencies: DepEd, CHED and TESDA, is perceived to strengthen and/or reinforce their respective M & E programs and functions in ensuring the following objectives are achieved for continuous improvement of each agency as it addresses the need to synchronize and harmonize the government s educational policies, programs and initiatives becomes all the more urgent given our country s ranking in world competitiveness: Greater accountability in the use of resources Greater focus on the achievement of results A clearer basis for decision-making, and The promotion of institutional learning and knowledge sharing. The presence of an External M & E body would lend credence to the objectivity of looking at the process and status of the implementation of education policy and program reforms by the respective education agencies under a rationalized, harmonized and synchronized framework. Such an entity or body, however, will have to work closely and interactively with the three educational agencies internal M & E division/unit. The scope for the M & E will initially focus on the cross-cutting issues for harmonization and synchronization of policies and programs and its implementation by the three educational agencies and major stakeholders/ partners within the thematic areas discussed during the First Biennial National Congress for Education on January 31, 2008 to February 1, 2008, namely: 342 Achieving full support of Stakeholders to Basic Education to attain high quality education, dramatically increase retention rate and implement fully innovative retrieval programs to reach a zero drop-out rate. Improving Teachers Competencies and Faculty Development in Tertiary Level Harmonizing Technical Vocational and Higher Education System Tightening Linkages Between Higher Education and the Industry Tightening Linkages Between Higher Education and PRC Management, Regulatory and Coordination Issues of the Three Education Agencies of Government Financial Assistance to Private Education and Budgetary Appropriations to State Universities and Colleges The action plan will include the conduct of series of consultation,
371 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps workshops and trainings with the DepEd, CHED and TESDA M & E units and other stakeholders like the DOST, PRC and the LGUs. The budget needed will be outsourced from potential local and foreign donors with an initial budget from the Presidential Social Fund. 11. BENCHMARKING The over-all objective of Benchmarking, local, regional and international is related to the establishment of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS) as per E.O. No In line with our goal to make the Philippine education system as highly competitive globally, then we need to strengthen our tertiary education institutions in terms of the curriculum, teachers and faculty qualification, and other components of education delivery mechanisms. Scope of the benchmarking may include looking into the baccalaureate programs and compare our 4-year course with other courses abroad; conduct local and international benchmarking activities in the areas of educational testing to serve as baseline for the creation of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing Agency and for the review of standards; and standards for accreditation, among others. Moreover, in the advent of globalization, we need to match the standard of industry or job needs of other countries. International comparability and mutual recognition of qualifications are important issues in most occupations where local regulatory bodies and employers want to keep standards high whilst also attracting skilled labor and professional workforce. Given this backdrop, there is a need also to look into the myriad of possibilities to ensure acceptability of our professional degrees regionally and internationally. The prospect of greater mobility for students and broader recognition of qualifications across the globe may also have significant implications for both domestic and international existing/prospective students/workforce in the Philippines. This concern is particularly crucial in professions such as in the fields of Accounting, Engineering, Medicine, etc. wherein biases in the number of years of education are of primary consideration. To address this problem, the prospect of conducting benchmark survey/ study per region or country shall be pursued where specific country requirements for recognition may be identified towards greater consistency and portability of our education system, accreditation process and professional regulatory mechanism across other target countries/regions. The study will also embark upon prospective professions for recommendation to boost the 343
372 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy competitive advantage of the Philippines (i.e. BPO Call Center Industry, Agriculture, etc). The effort is expected to establish or draw new multilateral/bilateral agreements for mutual recognition of credentials of our students/professionals with other countries. This envisions elevating the mobility of students, skilled workers and professionals to lateral transfer/entry and employment abroad. Furthermore, this will empower our institutions by strengthening the accreditation process undertaken by accrediting agencies in order to meet international standards, in a way they are understood and accepted in the global arena. 344
373 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Chapter 5: Agenda for Planning the Next Steps The Task Force shall continue to fulfill its mandate under E.O. 652 and serve its functions effectively, among which is to assess, plan, and monitor the entire educational system using the Main Education Highway as its reference framework The Presidential Task Force for Education T he Next Steps highlights the various programs or strategic policy interventions that is anchored on an agreed or acceptable framework for closer, more efficient and effective inter sub-sector coordination and which cuts across all levels and sectors. Major inputs which were translated to form part of a significant agenda for educational reforms have been taken from the proceedings of the First Biennial National Congress on Education held last January 31 to February 1, 2008, participated in by various education stakeholders from all over the country. The participants valuable inputs are envisioned to reinforce the capabilities of the various stakeholders and players of education that will ultimately result in higher quality educational systems, faculty, administrators, related government departments / agencies, and above all, high quality students and graduates. The role of the Task Force is to strengthen existing key mediating educational institutions, facilitate cross-functional initiatives and focus efforts towards the vision of building capabilities and preparing people for jobs and entrepreneurship while moving along the Main Education Highway. 345
374 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Essential discussion will center on educational policies, programs and actions/recommendations towards the harmonization and synchronization of the three education agencies of the government, in accordance with the objective of the Executive Order (EO) No. 652 issued by H.E. President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, and ensuring that all educational policies, programs and actions/recommendations are effectively implemented. Identifying the next steps is part of the continuing activities of the PTFE in relation to its functions particularly the holding of regular trans-subsectoral consultations on cross-cutting policies and programs; and identifying strategies to dove-tail the goals and objectives of the education system, especially tertiary education, to national development goals; and design and pursue monitoring the implementation of educational reforms. MAJOR THEMATIC ISSUES AND/OR CONCERNS Towards this end, major thematic issues or concerns will be given top priority of planning the next steps by the PTFE. The following presentations are actions or activities that need to be planned for appropriate implementation. The PTFE will provide the appropriate policy and program directions to pursue the reforms it recommends to the various entities of government and the private sector (business, industry, funding organizations, etc); and conduct regular and extensive series of consultations and drafting or formulation of Presidential issuances or legislative resolutions/bills for the Congress and Senate; including Special Committees in the Senate and Congress pertaining to the plans towards making the Philippines as a Knowledge-based Economy by 2020 and beyond. The thematic themes will include those that have been mandated in EO 652 and the recommendations contained in previous studies such as the PCER and EDCOM. 1. Monitoring and Evaluation EO No. 652 provides the legal basis for the establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluation design and its implementation. The objective of which is to institutionalize an effective and standardized monitoring, assessment and evaluation mechanism that will continuously assess the impact of the reform measures for continuous improvement and rationalizing allocation of government funds and future priorities. 346 The scope for the M & E will primarily focus on the cross-cutting issues for
375 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps harmonization and synchronization of policies and programs and the status of implementation by the three educational agencies. The action plan will be formulated and adopted through a series of consultation with the various M & E of the three education agencies and other government institutions: the PRC, DOST, LGU, DSWD, and the private sector: Industry sector, and private education institutions organization or association. The additional budget needed will be outsourced from potential local and foreign donors with an initial budget from the Presidential Social Fund. 2. Quality Assurance Economic development is correlated with the development of higher education. In fact, the fiscal constraints faced by many countries, coupled with increasing demand, has led to overcrowding, deteriorating infrastructure, lack of resources for non-salary expenditures, such as textbooks and laboratory equipment, and a decline in the quality of teaching and research activities. Likewise, the use of advanced technology has expanded access and spawned new ways of teaching and learning that were only imagined just four years ago. But it has also brought with it new challenges and concerns for quality control. One of the challenges to quality assurance faced by higher education as we enter the 21st century is in the creation of a number of new programs, particularly at the graduate level, resulting in duplication in some disciplines and shortages in others. New programs often did not have the resources necessary to ensure minimum quality standards: the composition and qualification of faculty was insufficient to ensure good quality teaching, poor compensation made it difficult to recruit and retain qualified personnel, and universities cut back on capital investment to compensate for decreasing financial resources from the federal government. As a result, learning and research materials, and equipment deteriorated and were a major constraint to improvement. The Government, however, is not remiss and has been working to improve the quality of higher education through: a. improving the legal and regulatory environment for the creation of new institutions and programs in the public and private sectors, for university management and quality evaluation; b. creating incentives and supporting initiatives and investments which will increase the efficiency and quality of institutions, and c. improving the allocation of resources within and supporting initiatives to diversify resources. 347
376 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 4. The Establishment of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS) One implication of this concern is the need to re-visit our existing quality assurance policies and scheme and pursue the establishment of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS). We acknowledged the existence of other agencies responsible for testing systems (e.g., NETRC, DOST, or UP for its Admission Test, Ateneo de Manila, La Sallle University, etc.). An inventory of these testing bodies is necessary to create a holistic evaluation of the system The NEETS is envisioned to be an encompassing and relevant testing and evaluation mechanism that will ensure effective dissemination and utilization of educational assessment and evaluation results. It shall be taken care of by a Group of Experts that is organizationally separate from the Department of Education, Commission on Higher Education, and Technical Education and Skills Development Authority, with the primary purpose of providing external intelligence that the educational system may use for its continuous improvement. Several activities will include: 1) capability building for testing expertise; 1) Item banking; 3) On-line testing; 4) Quality assurance system; 5) Development of standard competency test; and 6) establishment of an electronic network of SUCs and HEIs. 5. Benchmarking In order to be at par with international standards, doing or carrying out benchmarking activities is imperative. The priority areas for benchmarking may include the following areas: a. Strengthening of the capabilities of government agencies and/or educational institutions to design and implement common standards for Accreditation; b. For SUC/HEI to develop and implement a common standard for admission and testing of aptitudes or measurement or assessment of educational learning outcomes c. To expand and reinforce bilateral agreements with countries identified to have highly developed higher education institutions (Universities) and tailor fit to specific requirements of each identified country through: Continuing professional development and training International benchmarking on program offerings and quality assurance (standards, professional accreditation, among others) 348
377 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps International exchange of students and faculty Pursuing stronger collaboration for a world-class research with other countries Sharing of standards to facilitate international meeting of competencies in the 21 st century d. Increase support the Philippines membership and participation in global or international organizations, forum and assemblies. 6. Increasing and/or improving Investment in Education a. Review and implement new Financial Assistance Scheme b. Implement new scheme/policies on Student Loan Programs c. Implement comprehensively the various programs to rationalize and/or justify the increase in the yearly allocation in order that the present 34% allocation of investment in education will not cut or slashed. d. Recommend a rationalized increase in investment in Education based on a system of normative financing scheme which reflect greater accountability and efficiency particularly in the tertiary education level. 7. Tightening Linkages between the Academe and the Industry a. Organize Knowledge Networking for Critical Capabilities; Higher Education Institutions and Industry Networking for Research and Development; Education Hub in the Mega-Region or Super-Regions in the Philippines; and b. Strengthen collaboration between academe and the private sector for the establishment of Small and Medium Enterprises as Social Lab for students pursuing business management and accountancy education. 8. Issue on leveling the playing field Review of RA 7722 and RA 8292 and recommend actions that will improve the playing field for both the public and private education institutions through the following activities: a. Conduct consultations between neighboring SUCs/LGUs/LCUs to rationalize course offerings of public HEIs b. Organize forum to review the GASTPE Law to strengthen assistance to private HEIs through ESC and education voucher system c. Hold dialogue-meetings with policy makers and the concerned Standing Committees of the Houses of Senate and Congress on the review of educational enactments that covers policies to minimizes competition between SUCs and 349
378 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy private HEIs including rationalizing assistance to private education institutions. 9. Re-Visit the Educational System of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) Educational System ARMM operates its educational system based on the provision of RA ARMM has three paths or elements of basic education: formal system; the alternative learning system and the Madrasah system. ARMM has also three education agencies/departments: Department of Education, CHED and TESDA Equivalent to RA 9155 (Governance of Basic Education Act) ARMM s basic education governance is covered by a Muslim Mindanao Autonomy Act (MMAA) No. 14 An Act Providing for a system of education for the ARMM, creating a Regional Department of Education, Culture and Sports, and Appropriating Funds Therefor, and for other purposes. This was issued before the change in the title of the DEPED from DECS which was also correspondingly adopted by ARMM. Madrasah Education is one of the major integral part of the regional education program under the MMAA No. 14 (Sec. 3c), a policy declaration, stating that the accreditation and integration of the madaris into the educational system shall form part of the major thrust of the regional educational system in the Autonomous Region and the Regional Department of Education, Culture and Sports (RDECS) shall provide a continuing system within the organization to ensure the attainment of this objective. The lowest in educational performance/quality of educational services are in the provinces located in the ARMM and for which there is no budget allocation provided for in the respective budgets of the national or main educational agencies. ARMM is expectedly empowered to legislate or pass its own budget (in the GAA) for approval by the DBM and by the House of Congress and Senate. The three ARMM educational agencies/departments, through the Regional Assembly Legislation, is given wide range of powers to localize or indigenized its curricula provided it does not run contrary or in contradiction with the prescribed standards of the Philippine National Educational System. A review of the education legislation and policy implementation in the ARMM Basic Education [done by the EQuALLS (Education Quality and Access for Learning and Livelihood Skills) through the Creative Associates International, a USAID funded project] showed some major findings and recommendations: 350
379 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps On Madrasah Education: Non-implementation or barely partial implementation of RA 9054 mandating the RLA (Regional Legislative Assembly) to enact legislations for the strengthening and development of the Madrasah Educational system in the autonomous region including the funding mechanism/budget On Teacher Development: There is not an expressed priority in RA 9054 on Education neither existing policy on teacher development; On closer coordination with other educational agencies/departments: No expressed regional policy for upgrading the quality of tertiary education and for establishing closer links between primary education needs and tertiary education programs, particularly for teacher development; Clear-cut provisions of shared governance (school-based management) to promote transparency and accountability in the service (teachers, principals, school administrators) Division/district achievement tests: Interviews with officials at Division and district levels; principals and teachers, including promotional chiefs, revealed problems in the administration of achievement tests at the end of each year as: each division/district/school will produce their own sets of tests (production); No support for the localization of nationally-generated basic education curricula and national learning programs particularly in English, Science and Math; The need to improve education financing scheme and management in the ARMM education agencies particularly in the tertiary education level. 10. Other major imperatives towards a Knowledge-based economy: Therefore, as the country is positioning itself towards a full-pledged knowledge-based society and capable of achieving peace, and social wellbeing and globally competitive in the next decades, the following roadmapping initiatives are the imperatives: a. Education-for-All b. Upgrading the competencies and capacities to meet the challenge of the 21 st Century c. Science and Technology. d. Foreign Language. e. Information and Communication Technology (ICT). 351
380 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy f. Knowledge Networking for Critical Capabilities. g. Higher Education Network. h. Peace & Security. i. Mega-Region or Super-Region Development in the Philippines j. Bilateral / Multilateral Agreement: 352
381 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Pictorial Highlights PTFE Inaugural Meeting, 10 September 2007 PTFE Conference Room, Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education Tahanan ng Masa, Malacanang Complex, Manila 353
382 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 354
383 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Pictorial Highlights Pre-Education Congress Meeting, 16 January 2008 PTFE Conference Room, Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education Tahanan ng Masa, Malacanang Complex, Manila 355
384 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Pictorial Highlights Six Consultative Meetings with Education Stakeholders were presided over by H.E. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in December 2007 Aguinaldo Hall, Malacañan Palace Consultative Meeting with Education Sector, presided over by H.E. the President 356
385 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps First Consultative Meeting with Group of Experts on the Establishment of the National Educational Evaluation and Testing System (NEETS) 30 October 2007 Conference Room, Office of the Presidential Assistant For Education J.P. Laurel St. San Miguel, Tahanan ng Masa, Malacañang Complex, Manila 357
386 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy First Consultative Meeting with the Coordinating Council for Private Educational Associations (COCOPEA) 6 November 2007 Conference Room, Office of the Presidential Assistant For Education J.P. Laurel St. San Miguel, Tahanan ng Masa, Malacañang Complex, Manila 358
387 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps First Consultative Meeting with the Association of Local Colleges anduniversities 12 November 2007 Conference Room, Office of the Presidential Assistant For Education J.P. Laurel St. San Miguel, Tahanan ng Masa, Malacañang Complex, Manila 359
388 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy First Consultative Meeting with the Accrediting Agencies 16 November 2007 Conference Room, Office of the Presidential Assistant For Education J.P. Laurel St. San Miguel, Tahanan ng Masa, Malacañang Complex, Manila 360
389 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Appendices PART 2 Appendix 1: Executive Orders Appendix 1-A: Executive Order No. 705 Subjecting only Non-Accredited Private Schools for Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation Appendix 1-B: Executive Order No. 705-A Amending Executive Order No. 705, Series of 2008, by including the Higher Education Programs Accredited by the Four Other Accrediting Agencies not be Subjected to the Institutional Quality Assurance Moniotoring and Evaluation Process, and Creating a Coordinating Council for Accreditation Headed by the Commission on Higher Education Appendix 1-C: Executive Order No. 729 Adding the Director General of the Technical Educational and Skills Development Authority, or a Duly Designated Representative, as Additional Member of the Teacher Education Council. Appendix 1-D: Executive Order No. 730 Adding Two (2) Private Representatives to the Board of Advisers of the Commission on Higher Education Appendix 1-A: Executive Order 705 MALACAÑAN PALACE MANILA EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 705 SUBJECTING ONLY NON-ACCREDITED PRIVATE SCHOOLS FOR INSTITUTIONAL QUALITY ASSURANCE MONITORING AND EVALUATION WHEREAS, the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU) has been in existence for many years and has acquired a good reputation for accreditation; WHEREAS, the Commission on Higher Education established the Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation (IQUAME) in 2005 for regulation purposes; WHEREAS, there is a duplication of functions between PAASCU and IQUAME; NOW THEREFORE I, GLORIA M. ARROYO, President of the Philippines, by the powers vested in me by law, do hereby order: Section 1. The Commission on Higher Education shall only subject private schools not accredited by the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU) for Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation (IQUAME). Section 2. Colleges and universities shall be a tool not only for regulation but also for incentives for accredited colleges and universities. 361
390 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy DONE in Manila on this 2 nd day of January in the Year of Our Lord, Two Thousand and Eight. By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary Appendix 1-B: Executive Order 705-A 362 MALACAÑANG PALACE Manila EXECUTIVE ORDER 705-A AMENDING EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 705, SERIES of 2008, BY INCLUDING THE HIGHER EDUCATION PROGRAMS ACCREDITED BY THE FOUR OTHER ACCREDITING AGENCIES NOT TO BE SUBJECTED TO THE INSTITUTIONAL QUALITY ASSURANCE MONITORING AND EVALUATION PROCESS, AND CREATING ACOORDINATING COUNCIL FOR ACCREDITATION HEADED BY THE COMMISSION ON HIGHER EDUCATION. WHEREAS, Executive Order No. 705 dated January 2, 2008 subjected private schools not accredited with the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU) to the Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation (IQUAME) process; WHEREAS, other accrediting agencies are desirous of the same benefits enjoyed by PAASCUaccredited schools, colleges and universities; WHEREAS, the Presidential Task Force for Education has endorsed the proposal of the Presidential Commission on Educational Reform (PCER) for the establishment of a set of common standards for accreditation per discipline. NOW, THEREFORE, I, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by virtue of the powers vested n me by law, do hereby order: Section 1: Section 1 of Executive Order No. 705, dated January 2, 2008, is hereby amended to read as follows: Section 1. Higher education institutions with programs accredited by the five existing accrediting agencies, namely: the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU), the Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities Commission on Accreditation (PACU-COA), the Association of Christian Schools, Colleges and Universities Accrediting Agency (ACSU-AA), the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities (AACUP), and the Association of Local Colleges and Universities Commission on Audit (ALCU-COA), shall not be subjected by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) under the process of Institutional Quality Assurance Monitoring and Evaluation (IQUAME), provided that these accrediting agencies conform with a set of common standards formulated by a Coordinating Council on Accreditation (CCA), hereafter to be established by the CHED. Section 2. The Coordinating Council on Accreditation, Creation and Composition. The Coordinating Council on Accreditation (CCA) is hereby created, and shall be composed of a Commissioner of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) who shall sit as chair, and a representative from each of the five (5) existing accrediting agencies as members. Section 3. CCA Secretariat. The CCA shall be assisted by a Secretariat who shall be based in the CHED. Its main responsibility is to ensure the efficient and effective operations of the CCA. It shall be
391 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps composed of Technical Staff drawn from the CHED. Section 4. CCA Meetings. The CCA shall meet at least once every quarter or as often as may be determined by the CHED. Section 5. Funding. The funds for the operating expenses of the CCA shall be drawn from the Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF). Section 6. Repeal. All executive orders, rules and regulations and other issuances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent with this Executive Order, are hereby revoked, amended, or modified accordingly. Section 7. Effectivity. This Executive Order shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its publication in a national newspaper of general circulation. DONE in the City of Manila, this 10 th day of April in the year of Our Lord, Two Thousand and Eight. By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO IGNACIO R. BUNYE Acting Executive Secretary Appendix 1-C: Executive Order 729 MALACANAN PALACE MANILA EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 729 ADDING THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, OR A DULY DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE, AS ADDITIONAL MEMBER OF THE TEACHER EDUCATION COUNCIL WHEREAS, the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System was created pursuant to Executive Order (EO) NO. 652 dated August 21, 2007; WHEREAS, the need to strengthen existing mechanisms to complement the role of the Presidential Task Force for Education is necessary in synchronizing and harmonizing the entire education system; WHEREAS, the Teacher Education Council (TEC) was cerated pursuant to Republic Act (RA) No.7784, while the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) was created pursuant to RA No. 7796; WHEREAS, there is a need to include the technical-vocational sector of education to the TEC and to educate and train technical-vocational teachers of unquestionable integrity and competence; WHEREAS, Section 19, Book III, Title I, Chapter 7 and Section 31, Book III, Title III, Chapter 10 of EO No.292, otherwise known as the Administrative Code of 1987, recognizes the residual powers and the continuing authority of the President to reorganize. NOW THEREFORE I, GLORIA M. ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by the virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby reorganize the Teacher Education Council, by adding the Director General of the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA), or his duly 363
392 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy designated representative, as member thereof. All executive orders, rules and regulations and other issuances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent with this Executive Order, are hereby revoked, amended, or modified accordingly. This Executive Order shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its publication in a national newspaper of general circulation. DONE in the City of Manila, this 4 th day of June in the year of Our Lord, Two Thousand and Eight. By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary Appendix 1-D: Executive Order 730 MALACAÑAN PALACE MANILA EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 730 ADDING TWO (2) PRIVATE REPRESENTATIVES TO THE BOARD OF ADVISERS OF THE COMMISSION ON HIGHER EDUCATION WHEREAS, the Presidential Task Force to Assess, Plan and Monitor the Entire Educational System was created pursuant to Executive Order (EO) No. 652 dated August 21, 2007; WHEREAS, the need to strengthen existing mechanisms to complement the role of the Presidential Task Force for Education is necessary in synchronizing and harmonizing the entire education system; WHEREAS, Republic Act (RA) No. 7722, otherwise known as the Higher Education Act of 1994, created the Commission on Higher Education, and provided the composition of its Board of Advisers in Section 7 thereof; WHEREAS, there is a need to add two (2) new members to the composition of the Board of Advisers; WHEREAS, Section 19, Book III, Title I, Chapter 7 and Section 31, Book III, Title III, Chapter 10 of EO No.292, otherwise known as the Administrative Code of 1987, recognizes the residual powers and the continuing authority of the President to reorganize. NOW THEREFORE I, GLORIA M. ARROYO, President of the Republic of the Philippines, by the virtue of the powers vested in me by law, do hereby reorganize the Board of Advisers of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), by adding two (2) private representatives thereto. All executive orders, rules and regulations and other issuances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent with this Executive Order, are hereby revoked, amended, or modified accordingly. This Executive Order shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its publication in a national newspaper of general circulation. DONE in the City of Manila, this 4 th day of June in the year of Our Lord, Two Thousand and Eight. 364
393 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps By the President: GLORIA M. ARROYO EDUARDO R. ERMITA Executive Secretary Appendix 2: President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo s Speech During the Presentation of the Budget on Education Rizal Hall, Malacañang March 13, 2008 Good afternoon. Our officials of the Department of Education, CHED and TESDA, our youth and academic organizations, our teachers, school administration and parents, other members of the youth and representatives in the education sector, maraming salamat sa inyong pagdalaw sa Malacañang. Kapuri-puri ang inyong malasakit sa bansa. Malaking inspirasyon kayo para sa ating pamamahala. Hinalal ninyo ako -- kasi halos lahat sa inyo 18 years old and above na, meron ng ilang mga below 18 dito, di ba? -- at pati mga mambabatas para magtrabaho para sa kinabubuti ng lahat. Thank you for expressing your weariness of the politics of division and despair. Salamat sa inyong pahayag na gusto niyong gumawa, kaming mga hinalal ninyo, ng mahihirap ngunit wastong desisyon para sa ekonomiya, labanan ang kahirapan at panatiliin ang ating bansang mapayapa at maunlad. Itong nasa isip ko noong Martes nang nilagdaan ko ang pinakamalaking budget na naipasa sa kasaysayan ng Congress,1.2 trillion pesos para sa Isusulong nitong pondo ang tatlong E -- ekonomiya, environment at edukasyon. Ito ang mga programang pinakamahalaga upang gumanda ang ating buhay. Ipinamamalas ng ating budget ang ating pagkilos at preyoridad sa patakaran para mamuhunan sa ating taong-bayan. Hindi ba ang gusto ng bawat Pilipino ang mabuting trabaho, pagkain sa mesa, mabuting edukasyon para sa mga anak at mas maaliwalas at dalisay na kapaligiran na may sariwang hangin, malinis na tubig at mayamang lupa. Siguro nakalimutan na ng ibang tao at mga ibang mga pulitiko ngunit sa kauna-unang pagkakataon sa isang henerasyon nagkaroon tayo ng budget at ekonomiya na nagbibigay ng revenue na pwedeng gastusin sa pagpapaganda at pag-angat ng buhay ng Pilipino. Kasi nung araw sapat lang ang budget para sa sweldo, interes sa utang at IRA sa mga pamahalaang lokal. Nung araw kung gusto natin magtayo ng imprastraktura kailangan uutang pa tayo, pero hindi na ngayon. Pwede na tayong gumastos sa imprastraktura at sa social services sa sarili nating kakayahan at hindi na kailangan manggaling sa utang. Itong tinatawag nating social payback ay nagsimula noong isang taon pa nang simulaan natin lakihan ang pondong paggastos sa mga imprastraktura at sa mga pangunahing serbisyo sa ating mga kababayan kasama na dito ang edukasyon. Education in particular is taking a frontseat in our budget this year. Di ba wala ng ibang mas importante para sa mga Pilipino ngayon kungdi ang edukasyon. Ang oportunidad na magkaroon ng kalidad na edukasyon ang siyang paraan para sa inyong mga kabataan na nabibilang sa sususnod na henerasyon na makalaya sa kahirapan at mamuhay ng ginhawa. Education is a core value of Philippine society and family life. Edukasyon ang pinakatanging hiyas na pamana ng bawat magulang, kuya, ate, tiyo, tiya sa kanyang anak, kapatid, pamangkin. Upang makatapos ang kapamilya, nagpupuyat sa trabaho o mangingibang-bansa ang Pilipino, titipirin ang 365
394 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy pananghalian, mamumulot ng basura at iba pang sakripisyo alang-alang sa inaasam na diploma. Iyan ang halaga ng pag-aaral. Sapagkat pinakamahalaga ang edukasyon para sa pamilyang Pilipino, sinisikap ng pamahalaan na ilaan ang pinakamalaking pondo ng bansa sa edukasyon. Ngayon dahil sa ating mga reporma sa buwis, mas malaki na ang alokasyon sa mga programang panlipunan kaysa sa pambayad sa utang. Umaabot halos dalawan daang bilyon ang nasa edukasyon. Alam niyo naman na sabi ng ating Constitution ang pinakamalaking bahagi ng budget dapat edukasyon. But this time, it is the biggest percentage in a very long time. Tatanggap ng malaking pondo para sa edukasyon ang DepEd na sa halos dalawang daang bilyon pupunta sa mga ahensya ng edukasyon, P150 sa DepEd, ito ang nagpapatakbo ng mga elementary at high school. Tatanggap din ang CHED, tatanggap ang state universities and colleges, tatanggap ang TESDA, tatanggap ang DOST, meron ding galing sa CICT at meron pang bahagi sa DSWD. Halimbawa, papa-iralin ng DepEd at DSWD ang pre-school, dalawang bilyon ang gagamitin natin para dito. Unti-unti gagawing pre-school ang mga day care center. Tatlo t kahalating milyong maralita namang mag-aaral sa pre-school at daycare ang tatanggap ng bigas sa ilalim ng Food for School Program. Kaya may bahaging gastos sa edukasyon ang DSWD hindi lamang ang DepEd. Meron naman anim na bilyon na nakalaan sa 11,000 na silid-aralan. At mamamahagi ng lampas 35 milliong libro. Kasama rin sa budget ang pag hire ng sampung libong karagdagan na teacher. At may isang bilyon sa teacher training sa Math, Science and English. At may probisyong pantaas ng sweldo, baka sa gitna ng taon. Baka gagawin natin sa susunod na schoolyear in the middle of the year. Mahigit 60,000 naman na estudyante sa buong bansa ang bibigyan ng tulong na makapag-aral sa pribadong high school sa ilalim ng GATSPE ESC. At mayron din tayong high school vouchers, iba pa yun sa ESC. Itong high school voucher naman sa NCR dahil napakamahal ang edukasyon itataas mula sa 5,000 pesos, gagawing 10,000 pesos bawat high school voucher. May kontribusyon din ang CICT dahil bibili ng halos sanlibong computer laboratory para sa mga high school. At kay Buboy Syjuco, tatlong bilyong piso para sa pagbibigay ng mas maraming vocational training, kasama ang isang bilyong pisong scholarship sa 100,000 na mahihirap, at kasama ang P350 million para pag-training para sa mga Business Process Outsourcing at call center. Ayan ang TESDA. Yung mga ROTC, papalakasin natin ang ROTC program, kasi gusto natin na sumunod doon sa doctrine ng Citizen s Army enshrined in the Constitution. Yung college scholarships naman may manggagaling sa CHED, may manggagaling sa DOST -- P700 million. Ang science scholarships ay P300 million. At hindi lamang yun yan ay para sa college sa Masters, sa Science at Engineering kasama ang infrastructure at scholarships higit one billion pesos ang gagastusin. Yan ay sa Masters at doctorate. Kaya nakikita ninyo ang sakop ng edukasyon; pre-school, daycare, pre-school, grade school, high school, voctech, college, Masters, doctorate. At marami na tayong nagawa, maraming nalalabing kailangan gawin. Balak natin magtrabahong masipag sa susunod na dalawang taon hanggang sa araw na matapos ang aking termino sa Magtatrabaho tayo upang itupad ang ating Philippine Reform Agenda. Kailangan sumulong tayo at susulong tayo sa dagdag pang mga reporma. Ipaglalaban natin ang Ekonomiya, Environment at Edukasyon. Ayun, andaming mga grupo ng scholars ay tinataas ang kanilang mga bandilang pagpapasalamat. It is our honor to serve you, our constituents. Overall, we remain bullish on our economy, optimistic about our future and deeply committed to being a force for good. Kaya salamat at narito kayo ngayon. Thank you for demonstrating your commitment to our nation s stability and to investing in the people. Isulong ang Karunungan -- Panlaban sa Kahirapan. Maraming salamat sa inyong lahat. 366
395 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Appendix 3: President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo s Speech During the Launching Ceremony of the New Student s Assistance Fund for Education for a Strong Republic (SAFE4SR) and Presentation of the Development Bank of the Philippines Scholars as Iskolars ni GMA Eulogio "Amang" Rodriguez Institute of Science and Technology (EARIST) Gymnasium, Nagtahan, Manila June 5, 2008 Thank you very much. Thank you very much Secretary Neri for your introduction. At binabati rin natin ang Congressman sa distrito kung nasaan ang EARIST at kung nasaan ang Malacañang, si Congressman Benny Abante; ang ating host president, Dr. Eduardo Caillo, Congratulations!; si Mona Valisno; si Nona Ricafort na ang daming ginawang trabaho para dito; ang ating mga kaibigan sa DBP, Chair Pat Sto. Tomas; our members of the Board nakita ko sila lahat at saka ang presidente, si Rey David. At maligayang bati rin sa lahat ng mga mag-aaral, mga guro, mga administrator narito kayo at alam ko lahat kayo ay bising-busy sa pagsisimula ng klase sa darating na linggo. Today we launched the second of the major components of the fruits to be made available this year by our lower than program budget deficit which can be attributed to VAT reforms. Congressman Abante pwede mong i-congratulate ang inyong sarili at mga kasama mo dahil itong mga binigay natin hindi mangyayari kung wala tayong value-added tax. Thank you. From January to April, four billion pesos was generated from the value-added tax on oil products. And during the last Cabinet meeting, two billion pesos was allocated to provide cash transfers to the four million poorest of the poor and those using up to 100 kilowatt electricity consumption. That was our first program yung "Katas ng VAT: Pantawid Kuryente." Now, this is the second program. The Cabinet also approved the amount that Nona mentioned, one billion pesos to provide interest free loans and scholarships to poor students. Gaya nang sabi ni Nona, half a billion for the loans, half a billion for the scholarships -- eto ang tawag nating Students' Assistance Fund for Education or SAFE. Binabati natin yung mga estudyanteng tumanggap ng pautang sa matrikula mula sa ating bagong SAFE. Dahil sa SAFE, may programang pahiram na hindi lalampas Mona sa 8,000 pesos bawat semester na pambayad sa tuition, libro at iba pang pangangailangan. Aside from the one billion that we've set aside from our VAT -- eto nga kaya tawag natin dito kung yung isa ay yung two billion ay "Katas ng VAT: Pantawid Kuryente," etong for SAFE naman ay "Katas ng VAT: Pantawid Pag-aaral." And aside from the one billion from the VAT, we have also from the Development Bank of the Philippines advocating quality education for poor but intelligent students yun ang kaibahan, kasi yung Katas ng VAT kahit na hindi kayo masyadong matalino basta pumapasa kayo, okay. Pero itong DBP kailangan matalino kayo. Through its 10-year, one billion-peso program also to pay for the tuition and other fees of college students from poor families. DBP is opening a wide window of opportunity for 1,000 bright high school students who pass the program s academic and other requirements. Nandito yata the first to our first 125 who comprised the first batch of DBP scholarship, and I understand you will take up nursing in the Bank s partner schools, Good luck to all of you, Congratulations! na kaagad. Mona talked about our meeting with the SUCs a couple of weeks ago, so I would like to tie that up with what we're doing today and I'm glad that Nona anticipated what I would want and she made the announcement. But I just want to repeat -- for those in the North Luzon Agri-business Quadrangle and Agri-business Mindanao, indeed, the focus should be on student loans and scholarships in agricultural courses. And because we're talking here about poverty, they're the ones who bear the biggest brunt of the increasing price of fuel and power, there should be a special quota for the 10 poorest provinces in the country, namely: Tawi-Tawi, especially for the fisheries courses of the Tawi-Tawi College of Technology and Oceanography; Zamboanga del Norte, including their access not only to the state college in Zamboanga del Norte but also to the West Mindanao State University; Maguindanao, including their access not only to the state college in Mindanao but also in education in the good private schools in the vicinity like Notre Dame; Apayao and Abra, not only access to their own state college but also access to the education in the private colleges and universities of Baguio City; Dinagat Islands; Lanao del Sur, 367
396 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy especially for agriculture education at the Mindanao State University; Northern Samar; Masbate, which I understand has the smallest state college in the whole country, but with the scholarship they can have more students, can become more viable; and Misamis Occidental which is a very, very good state college. There should also be a quota for those provinces which do not belong to the 10 poorest but are part of the 10 most food-poor provinces, namely: Agusan del Sur, Kalinga and Surigao del Sur, especially for agriculture because we want them to produce more food. And in the case of Surigao del Sur, especially for agriculture and mineral courses at the Surigao del Sur State Polytechnic College. We're doing this because everyone in this nation, public and private, has an obligation to meet the needs of the nation on education, food security and vital services like energy. Because we are distributing Katas ng VAT na binabayaran ng mga nagkonsumo ng langis at kuryente, 80 percent of whom are well-off, eh pag-usapan nga natin ang enerhiya at ang pamahalaan, mga opisina ng pamahalaan including SUCs, including DBP. Starting today, all government agencies and entities, including government-owned and controlled corporations are directed to start electricity and fuel saving measures, using widely accepted practices and creative and innovative ways that can be employed to substantially lower fuel and electricity consumption. For this purpose, last June 2nd, I signed an Administrative Order to this effect: 1. All agencies shall reduce transport fuel consumption in liters by ten percent starting June. 2. Government buildings shall turn off airconditioners -- walang problema ang EARIST, hindi airconditioned -- government buildings shall turn off airconditioners at 4:30 p.m., except those with 24-hour work. Halimbawa ang mga ospital, hindi naman kailangan. 3. Agencies shall implement, starting July, plans to replace all incandescent bulbs and make them fluorescent. 4. Agencies shall convert twenty percent of their vehicles in major cities, not in the provinces, in major cities to liquid petroleum by September 2008 kasi mas mura ang LPG. 5. Agencies shall install and/or adopt other energy saving technology with the help of the Department of Energy and/or the Department of Science and Technology. We are also appealing to the local government units to undertake similar saving measures. The era of cheap and plentiful fossil fuel, the source of much of our fuel and the fuel of the world and a major generator of electricity in the Visayas and Mindanao, is definitely over. In this context, cutting down on fuel and electricity consumption is an economic imperative, a moral duty and a global obligation. Huwag nating kalimutan na buong mundo ang nagdudusa sa mataas na presyo ng langis at mataas na presyo ng pagkain. Therefore much of the world has adopted stringent measures to cut down the consumption of fuel and electricity. We are celebrating World Environment Day, so we can add that reducing our use of fossil fuel is also a direct boost to our environmental programs, specifically efforts to mitigate the impact of climate change. Adhering to this directive, or going the extra mile to be creative and innovative in cutting down fuel and electricity, will have its rewards. The savings, translated into peso value, shall be given back to the personnel of the complying agencies in the form of additional rice and transportation subsidies. This will provide immediate relief from the rising price of rice in the whole world and adjusted transport fares. Alam niyo kanina, meron akong kausap na mga congressmen, sabi nila, pwede bang dagdagan yung P18.25 na bigas? Sabi ko, depende kung ano ang isasakripisyo natin doon sa ating budget and at the same time hindi masyadong malaki ang deficit na tataas tuloy ang interest rate. Magkano ba? Eh sabi ko kung ano yung diperensya ng commercial at ang diperensya ng NFA lahat yan halos subsidy yan. Sabi nung congressmen, ganun pala, hindi namin alam, akala namin yang P18.25 na NFA talaga yun ang presyo. Hindi yun ang presyo, binibili ng NFA ng mahal binebenta mg mura. Akala ng congressmen sabi nila, akala namin meron kayong special price. Totoo yun, meron tayong special price. Halimbawa, kung 1,200 dollars ang binebenta sa ibang bansa, yung mga kaibigan natin, siguro ibebenta sa ating 800 dollars pero yung 800 dollars doble naman yun binibili ng buong mundo nung araw ng 400 dollars kaya kahit na meron tayong special price malaki pa rin ang dinagdag nating bayad kaya malaki ang subsidy. Kaya napakaimportante na tayo lahat ay nag-iimpok. A breakdown of the household expenditures of employees, public or private, shows that a sizable portion of a family s household income expense goes to rice and transport fares. 368
397 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps So, I direct the chairman of the Philippine National Oil Company Development and Management Corporation, si Waldo Flores, and the Department of Budget and Management, Nonoy Andaya, to monitor the compliance of government entities with the directives I gave in my Administrative Order. The PNOC-DMC and DBM are tasked to submit quarterly reports on the compliance of government agencies so that we will know how much additional rice and transport subsidies can be released to their employees every quarter at kasama doon ang ating mga state universities and colleges. Etong ginagawa natin ngayong hapon ay sang-ayon sa tatlong "E" -- the Economy, the Environment and Education. These are central to lifting our nation up and getting it ready for you -- the next generation of leaders. Kaya sa inyong lahat, ating mga scholars, ating beneficiary ng loan program, Congratulations! Maraming salamat sa inyong lahat. Appendix 4: Madrasah Education Program Mainstreaming, Development & Institutionalization as a Component of the National System of Basic Education By Secretary Jesli A. Lapus Background The Madrasah Education Program was created mainly to address the needs of the Muslim learners for quality basic education. Problems have abounded education of the Filipino Muslims dichotomy and the quest of Bansangmoro people in Mindanao for an education customized to address directly their needs. Dichotomy in Muslim Education For the past decades, Muslim Education in the Philippines has been dichotomized. On one hand are the Muslim school children in the public schools and on the other are those who are in the sectarian Madaris (Islamic educational institutions). Public schools are not Islamic-friendly thus, Muslim school children do not receive what they need for their religion and its preservation while Madaris do not follow the Basic Education Curriculum (BEC) being sanctioned by DepEd. The dichotomy has resulted to difficulty in the transferability of students from the Madaris to public schools and vice versa. Graduates of the Madrasah (whether elementary or secondary) can not proceed to the higher educational level offered in secular schools. In addition, graduates of Madrasah (local / foreign) at the collegiate level are not competitive in the Philippine job market due to lack of communication skills in the English language, technical skills, and professional competence. Due to this dichotomy, three different types of Madrasah have evolved in Philippine society: Weekend or Qur anic (Traditional) Madrasah Classes are held on weekends (Saturdays and Sundays) only or on days agreed upon by the teachers and the students. There is no formal curriculum that is being followed. Hence, it is non-graded and may involve multi-age groupings. The teachers are either graduates of a Madrasah or taught by an Imam (Muslim religious leader). Developmental or Formal Madrasah This type offers a hierarchically structured education and sequential learning that is generally attuned with the formal education system. Thus, offer pre-elementary, primary (Ibtida I 4 years), intermediate (I dade 4 years) and secondary (Thanawi 4 years) education. Integrated Madrasah This type offers both the Islamic curriculum and BEC. Only a few exist in the Philippines today. However, it is expected that with the Madrasah Education Program, the number of these schools will 369
398 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy increase and eventually all private Madrasah shall be mainstreamed by adopting the standard curriculum for private Madrasah. Madrasah Education in Mindanao In 1996, the Final Peace Agreement between the MNLF and GRP was signed wherein one of its provisions is to strengthen and develop Madrasah Education not only in the ARMM but also in the entire country. Intervention of the Department: Madrasah Education Program Mainstreaming, Development and Institutionalization as a Component of the National System of Basic Education The Madrasah Education Program was created by the Department to provide quality basic education to Muslim learners and also to address the problem of dichotomy. With this program, the Muslim school children and out-of-school youths are ensured of access to an Islamic-friendly educational curriculum and quality basic education comparable with the rest of the Filipino children. To realize this, the Road Map for Upgrading Muslim Basic Education: A Comprehensive Program for the Educational Development of Filipino Muslims was drafted. This was approved by then Secretary Edilberto C. de Jesus in Below are its program components: Development and Institutionalization of Madrasah Education; Upgrading Quality Secular Basic Education in the formal elementary and secondary schools serving Muslim children; Developing and Implementing an Alternative Learning System for Filipino Muslim Out-of- School Youths (OSY); Developing and Implementing Appropriate Livelihood Skills Education and Training for Present Day Students of Private Madaris, and Out-of-School Youths (OSY); Supporting Government Efforts to Provide Quality Early Childhood Care and Development (ECCD) Programs for Filipino Muslim Pre-school Children; Creation of a Special Fund for Assistance to Muslim Education (FAME) by an Act of Congress; and Improvement of the Health and Nutritional Status of Filipino Muslim learners particularly in public elementary schools. The ROADMAP can be summarized into three major components: Madrasah Education Program for the Public Schools; Madrasah Education Program in the Private Madaris; and Madrasah Education Program for Muslim Out-of-School Youths & Adults. The following are discussions on programs & projects for each of the major components: Madrasah Education Program or Arabic Language and Islamic Values Education (ALIVE) in the Public Schools Curriculum With the ROADMAP in hand, the first step carried out by the Department was to unify the curriculum for the elementary level in the public schools and private Madaris through the development of a standard curriculum. This was achieved through the issuance of DepEd Order No. 51, s.2004 (Standard Curriculum for Elementary Public Schools and Private Madaris) on August 28, Below is the new curriculum under the Madrasah Education Program: Subjects such as Arabic Language and Islamic Values Education are taught in public schools with a substantive number of Muslim enrollees while secular subjects are offered in private Madaris. Through this curriculum, the transfer of students from the private Madrasah to the public schools and vice versa will be facilitated. The curriculum for the secondary level, on the other hand, is expected to be developed this year with curriculum experts from this Department and Filipino Muslim scholars in Arabic Language and Islamic 370
399 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Secular Subjects (RBEC) Learning Areas Public Schools Private Madaris English ü ü Math ü ü Science ü ü Filipino ü ü MAKABAYAN ü ü Additional Subjects: Arabic Language ü ü Islamic Values ü Sectarian Subjects (Islam) Qur an Aqeedah & Fiqh Seerah & Hadith ü ü ü Studies. Instructional Materials To support the curriculum, instructional materials such as textbooks, skill books and teacher s manuals were developed through funding from the World Bank Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP). These include materials on Arabic Language and Islamic Values (for public schools) and Islamic Studies subjects (for private Madaris). Teachers (Asatidz) Muslim teachers (Ustadj singular; Asatidz plural) teaching Arabic Language and Islamic Values Education (ALIVE) in the public schools are either graduates from local Madaris or trained in Islamic schools abroad. They are knowledgeable in the Arabic Language as well as in Islamic Studies. Teacher Training & Development To ensure that all teachers hired have basic competencies in Arabic and Islamic Studies, qualifying examinations were administered to the applicants. Those who passed are qualified to undergo the Level I Teacher Training & Development (pre-service) called the Language Enhancement and Pedagogy (LEaP); Level II is the Accelerated Teacher Education Program (ATEP). Under LEaP, the Asatidz are trained on the English Language and Pedagogy such as: (1) listening and speaking English; (2) reading and writing English; (3) methods of teaching and classroom management; and (4) immersion into the public school system. Completers of LEaP are qualified to be hired as Asatidz in the public schools on contractual basis. Once they are deployed, they will enroll in ATEP. The ATEP is a 24-month in-service modular program on teacher education whereby the Asatidz can obtain a certification equivalent to a Bachelor s Degree in Elementary Education from ATEP partner universities. Under this program, the teachers are schooling while teaching. Teacher Education Courses To establish a steady pool of Asatidz, teacher education courses will be developed as follows: Diploma Course in Arabic Language and Islamic Studies This course will be developed for Muslim regular public school teachers who wish to teach the 371
400 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy ALIVE subjects or for Muslim BEEd/ BSEEd graduates, especially LET passers, who opt to teach Arabic Language and Islamic Values. BEEd / BSEEd Major in Arabic Language and Islamic Studies The 4-year teacher education course will be developed for Muslims who want to specialize in teaching the Arabic Language and Islamic Studies. Teacher Allowance Since most of the Asatidz are not part of the public school system, they are provided with honorarium/teacher allowance from the Local Government Units and / or this Department. Under DepEd Memo No. 250, s. 2007, Asatidz can receive the standard amount of P per month for services rendered. The allowance may either come from the LGU alone, DepEd or both DepEd and the LGU. In cases where the LGU do not provide any financial support, DepEd gives a maximum amount of P per month for every Asatidz. Teacher Item The pre and in-service training programs were designed not only to provide skills and knowledge to the Asatidz but to professionalize them as well. Hence, once an Ustadj/Ustadja passes the LET, he/she is assured of a permanent teacher item (ALIVE Teacher I) in the public school. For SY , a total of 190 teacher items were created and allocated across the country. However, only 49 Asatidz passed the LET; thus, these 49 Asatidz have been appointed as Teacher I specializing in Arabic Language and Islamic Values Education. ALIVE for Muslim Out-of School Youth (OSY) and Adults Aside from the formal sector, the Madrasah Education Program also aims to help the non-formal sector. Over the years, the number of Muslim out-of-school youths and adults in the country has increased. It is also revealed in different studies that the rate of school drop-out is highest in Muslim areas. This is a cause for serious concern not only for their education but also the peace and order issues in these areas. Hence, to positively contribute to the peace process and improvement of the quality of life of the Muslims through education and training, programs for the Muslim out-of-school youths and adults have been developed: ALIVE in ALS (Arabic Language and Islamic Values Education in Alternative Learning System) This program was developed through the Department s Bureau of Alternative Learning System. Its main objective is to provide basic literacy programs with ALIVE to Muslim illiterates and continuing education to drop-outs. ALIVE in TVET (Arabic Language and Islamic Values Education in Technical & Vocational Education & Training) This program is currently being developed in collaboration with TESDA with the aim of providing skills training programs with ALIVE to Muslim OSYs and adults appropriate to their interest and aptitude. Priority will be accorded to migrant Muslim OSYs in urban areas. ALIVE with Entrepreneurship This program will be developed with organizations that provide entrepreneurship programs to young Muslims. The Philippine Business for Social Progress (PBSP) has submitted a proposal to develop and manage this program. Assistance to Private Madaris In an effort to mainstream Muslim Basic Education into the national system, two major projects for the private Madrasah were designed as follows: Financial Assistance to Private Madaris This financial assistance scheme, similar to GASTPE program, primarily aims to decongest the public school system and to provide incentive for the Madaris to adopt and implement the Standard Curriculum for Public Elementary Schools and Private Madrasah. Secondly, through the financial assistance, quality education in these sectarian schools will be ensured and recurrent operational costs 372
401 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps will be augmented. As stipulated in DepEd Order No. 81, s.2007 titled Assistance to Private Madrsah and its Implementing Rules and Regulations under DepEd Order No. 18, s.2008, pupil-recipients are entitled to an amount of P each. The lump sum for each participating school will be fund transferred directly to the Madrasah to be used for the payment of salaries of teachers and for improvement of school facilities. BEC in the Private Madaris With the implementation of BEC in the private Madaris, the students will not only be taught on Islamic Studies but secular subjects as well. Graduates from the Madaris will have equal opportunities to compete in the job market with their counterparts. Program Implementation ALIVE in the Public Schools Standard Curriculum for Public Elementary Schools ALIVE was offered in the public schools starting SY at Grade I level. Since then, the number of implementing regions, divisions and schools have increased. Currently, the program is being implemented in 794 public elementary schools nationwide. On the next page is the breakdown by region: In SY , implementing regions such as NCR, IX, X, XI and XII will start to open Grade IV classes. The others regions that started in SY will open their Grade III classes this coming school year. Region XII with only 9 divisions has the most number of schools with ALIVE due to the large Muslim population in the area. In June 2008, ALIVE classes will be opened in Regions I, II, CAR, V and VIII. As a result, the ALIVE program will be on its nationwide scope. Instructional Materials Textbooks for Grades I to III on Arabic Language and Islamic Values have been printed through funding granted by the World Islamic Call Society (WICS) of Libya. A total of 362,500 copies of Grade I textbooks (for each title) were distributed to the recipient divisions; 200,000 for Grade II; and 300,000 for Grade III. The materials for Grade IV shall be reviewed, printed and delivered before the end of SY In addition, copies of the Enriched Curriculum Framework for Elementary Public Schools and Standard Curriculum for Private Madaris were printed and distributed through grants from UNICEF. Teachers (Asatidz) As of SY , there are 1,597 Asatidz throughout the country teaching the ALIVE subjects. The biggest number is in Region XII with 515 Asatidz. However, a number of these teachers who did not pass the Arabic Qualifying Examination (QE) will be dismissed from the service at the end of SY The QE which was administered only last year, were also given to those already deployed in the schools. Of the 1,584 examinees both prospective teachers and deployed 53% passed the exam. Likewise deployed teachers who failed in the QE will not be hired anymore. Therefore, recruitment of new Asatidz has been conducted and an examination has been administered this year in preparation for SY However, prior to deployment, these qualified Asatidz will undergo the 23-day LEaP training this May. In terms of training, more than 2,000 Asatidz have received the LEaP since ALIVE started. In areas under the PA-BEAM (Philippine-Australia Basic Education Assistance to Mindanao) Project such as Regions XI and XII, 751 Asatidz have completed the training. BEAM has already also started ATEP Cycle I; a total of 326 completed the program and of them, 49 passed the 2007 LET. All LET passers were given permanent teacher items in their respective divisions. At present, preparations with ATEP partner universities are being made for the school opening this June 2008 (ATEP Cycle 3). 373
402 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Further, this Department started to give honorarium / teacher allowance to the Asatidz last June From June December 2007, a total of P26,713, was allotted to these teachers. Payments from January March 2008 have been processed at the national level and are now transferred to the Division Offices. ALIVE for Muslim Out-of-School Youth and Adults ALIVE in ALS During the latter part of 2007, preparatory activities for the development of ALIVE in ALS commenced, such as: (1) Strategic Planning Workshop on ALIVE in ALS; (2) Workshop for Curriculum & Materials Development; (3) Review & Finalization Workshop for ALIVE in ALS modules; (4) Printing/ Production of Learning Modules & Session Guides; and (5) Orientation/ Training Workshop for Instructional Managers & Asatidz (Phase I). Last February & March 2008, ALIVE in ALS was rolled-out in pilot areas in NCR, Regions III and IV-A such as: Quiapo (Islamic Center), Baseco, Culiat, Taguig, Pasay, Dasmarinas (Cavite), Angeles City, and San Fernando City. Currently, there are 28 Instructional Managers (from ALS field offices) and 7 Asatidz under the Basic Literacy Program; 20 Instructional Managers (from ALS field offices) and 8 Asatidz under the Accreditation & Equivalency Program (elementary & secondary levels). Data on the number of learners are still being collected. Phase II of roll-out will be conducted this April & May; preparatory activities will be conducted for the Visayas and Mindanao groups prior to program launching. ALIVE in TVET The Memorandum of Agreement between TESDA and this Department was signed early this year. Under the MOA, TESDA will provide the skills training programs to identified Muslim OSY and adults as well as manage the program under ALIVE in TVET. Below are the activities conducted: Assistance to Private Madaris A number of private Madaris in Mindanao and Metro Manila are implementing the Standard Curriculum for Private Madrasah; 37 schools from BEAM areas, 15 Madaris assisted by EQuALLS (USAID) and 4 self-supporting schools (in Taguig, Quiapo, Cotabato & Davao City) are offering BEC subjects to their pupils. To encourage more Madaris to implement this curriculum and standardize the process of the financial assistance, DepEd Order No. 81, s.2007 was issued followed by its implementing guidelines, laid down in DepEd Order No. 18, s An advocacy meeting with administrators and owners of these Madaris is expected to be held next month. Alongside the curriculum, Grades I to VI materials on Aqeedah & Fiqh, Seerah & Hadith and Qur an have been developed. UNICEF has generously provided the funding for the printing of the Grade I materials and the recently concluded Workshop on the Review of Islamic Studies Instructional Materials. Output from the aforementioned workshop will be made as basis for the revision and refinement of the materials. Funding Support Budgetary support for the Madrasah Education Program was provided for the first time under the FY 2006 Supplemental Budget in the amount of P150M. In FY 2007, under the GAA, P100M was allotted to the program and P200M for FY Alongside the support from this Department, numerous donor communities also extended financial assistance. Among the first were The Asia Foundation and UNICEF which funded the seminar for curriculum development and the printing of the Curriculum Framework, respectively. The WICS of Libya has provided funds for the printing of the textbooks for the public schools. The PA-BEAM Project has contributed the most in terms of financial support and technical assistance. The Muslim Education Division of BEAM has helped in the development of the ALIVE program, design & development of training programs & modules on LEaP & ATEP, preparation & development of the qualifying examination, conduct of teacher training, and preparation of projects for private Madaris. 374
403 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps In addition, foreign governments such as that of Indonesia and Brunei have also supported the program. The government of Brunei has granted scholarships in Arabic Language & Madrasah School Administration to Asatidz from Mindanao while a study visit was offered by the Indonesian government to senior officials from this Department recently. Preparatory Activities Date 2-Day Operational Planning Workshop on TVET with ALIVE for NCR Dec Workshop on the Development of Training Materials for TVET with ALIVE Jan & Jan Feb. 1, 2008 Development of Assessment Instruments Feb , 2008 Validation of ALIVE Learning Materials Feb , 2008 Finalization of Training Materials (Print) and Assessment Instruments March 5 7, 2008 National Mapping (target - 25,000 Muslim OSY respondents) except ARMM March 2008 Development of Computer-Aided Learning Materials or Coursewares March 10 14, 2008 Trainer s Methodology Course (For Luzon & NCR cluster) April 8 12, 2008 Assessment Methodology Course April 21 22, 2008 Appendix 5: A Contributions-backed Educational Loan Program 375
404 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy 376
405 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps 377
406 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Education is the point at which we decide whether we love the world enough to assume responsibility for it and by the same token to save it from that ruin, which, except for renewal, except for the coming of the new and the young, would be inevitable. An education, too, is where we decide whether we love our children enough not to expel them from our world and leave them to their own devices, nor to strike from their hands their choice of undertaking something new, something unforeseen by us, but to prepare them in advance for the task of renewing a common world. -Hannah Arendt, Teaching as Leading 378
407 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Directory The Presidential Task Force for Education Fr. Bienvenido F. Nebres, S.J. Chairman President Ateneo de Manila University Ateneo de Manila University Katipunan Avenue., Loyola Heights Quezon City Hon. Romulo L. Neri Co-Chairman Secretary, Commission on Higher Education Commission on Higher Education DAP Bldg. San Miguel Avenue, Pasig City Hon. Jesli A. Lapus Member Secretary, Department of Education Department of Education UL Complex, Meralco Avenue Pasig City Hon. Augusto L. Syjuco Member Secretary, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority Technical Education and Skills Development Authority South Superhighway, Taguig City 379
408 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Hon. Mona D. Valisno Member Presidential Assistant for Education, Office of the President Office of the Presidential Assistant for Education J.P. Laurel St., Tahanan ng Masa Malacañang Complex, Manila Dr. Leonor T. Rosero Member Secretary, Professional Regulation Commission Professional Regulation Commission P. Paredes Cor. Morayta St., Sampaloc, Manila Amb. Donald G. Dee Representing the Industry Sector Special Envoy of the President on Trade Negotiations Personal Office Yam Ventures Bldg. Pasig City Dr. Emmanuel Y. Angeles Academe-Private Sector Chancellor, Angeles University Foundation Angeles University Foundation McArthur Highway, Angeles City Dr. Victor S. Limlingan Representing the Economic Sector Chairman, Guagua National Colleges Asian Institute of Management 123 PAseo de Roxas, Makati City 380
409 Post Congress Agenda: The Next Steps Dr. Jose V. Abueva Academe-Private Sector President, Kalayaan College Kalayaan College Riverbanks Center, Marikina City Fr. Roderick C. Salazar, SVD Member Representing the Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations (COCOPEA) University of San Carlos P. del Rosario St., Cebu City 381
410 The Philippine Main Education Highway: Towards a Knowledge-Based Economy Directory The OPAE Personnel/Staff 382
411 The First Biennial National Congress for Education Publications Committee Chair: MONA DUMLAO VALISNO, Ph.D. Presidential Assistant for Education Members: Reynaldo T. Peña, OPAE Clifford A. Paragua, TESDA Romeo A. Isaac, CHED Publications Technical Editorial Staff: Editor-in-Chief: Pilar A. Bautista Associate & Lay-Out Editors: Eleonor I. Suarez Daisy D. Cayos Catherine Nicole A. Posadas Editorial Assistants: Michelle R. Labiste Danilo S. Cortez, Jr. Glenn M. Ison


        Testimony to the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions John White, Louisiana State Superintendent of Education October 3, 2017 Chairman Alexander, Senator Murray, members of the    


        James H. Williams, Ed.D. jhw@gwu.edu CICE, Hiroshima University George Washington University August 2, 2012 Very poor country, but rapidly growing economy Access has improved, especially at primary Lower    


        Assumption University Five-Year Strategic Plan (2014 2018) AU Strategies for Development AU Five-Year Strategic Plan (2014 2018) Vision, Mission, Uniqueness, Identity and Goals Au Vision Assumption University    


        Dakar Framework for Action Education for All: Meeting our Collective Commitments Text adopted by the World Education Forum Dakar, Senegal, 26-28 April 2000 Dakar Framework for Action Education for All:    


        EUROPEAN UNIVERSITIES LOOKING FORWARD WITH CONFIDENCE PRAGUE DECLARATION 2009 Copyright 2009 by the European University Association All rights reserved. This information may be freely used and copied for    


        PLANNING FOR K TO 12 Don Brodeth, CFA Taft Consulting Group donbrodeth@yahoo.com Our role as managers of schools. What are the challenges of K to12? How can my school plan for K to 12? A planning tool    


        United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization Regional Bureau for Education in Africa (BREDA) Regional Conference on Higher Education in Africa (CRESA) 10-13 November 2008 Preparatory    


        BASIC EDUCATION IN GHANA IN THE POST-REFORM PERIOD By Abena D. Oduro Centre for Policy Analysis Accra November, 2000 Please do not Quote, Comments Welcome. ABSTRACT This paper reviews the first stage of    


        Interview on Quality Education President European University Association (EUA) Ultimately, education is what should allow students to grow, learn, further develop, and fully play their role as active citizens    


        36 37 POPULATION TRENDS Economy ECONOMY Like much of the country, suffered significant job losses during the Great Recession. Since bottoming out in the first quarter of 2010, however, the city has seen    


        Written Response to the Enterprise and Business Committee s Report on Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) Skills by the Minister for Education and Skills November 2014 I would like to set    


        Standard 1 STANDARD 1: DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A SHARED VISION Education leaders facilitate the development and implementation of a shared vision of learning and growth of all students. Element    


        Governors and State Legislatures Plan to Reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act Summary In today s competitive global economy, our education system must prepare every student to be successful    


        Presentation of the English Montreal School Board To Mme Michelle Courchesne, Ministre de l Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on «DÉMOCRATIE ET GOUVERNANCE DES COMMISSIONS SCOLAIRES Éléments de réflexion»    


        Country Paper THAILAND INNOVATIVE PRACTICE IN TVET TOWARDS EDUCATION FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN THAILAND DR. (MS.) SIRIRAK RATCHUSANTI SENIOR ADVISOR FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION STANDARD (BUSINESS & HOSPITALITY),    


        George W. Bush No Child Left Behind Bill Signing Address delivered 8 January 2002, Hamilton, Ohio AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio Okay! I know you all are anxious    


        JICA s Operation in Education Sector - Present and Future - September 2010 Preface Only five more years remain for the world to work towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. Developing    


        5.7 Country case study: Vietnam Author Nguyen Xuan Hung, Secretary, Vietnam Pharmaceutical Association, xuanhung29@vnn.vn Summary Pharmacy workforce development has only taken place over the last two decades    


        University of Toronto OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST 1. Introduction A Framework for Graduate Expansion 2004-05 to 2009-10 In May, 2000, Governing Council Approved a document entitled Framework    


        Materials linked from the 5/12/09 OSU Faculty Senate agenda 1. Who Participates Value of Athletics in Higher Education March 2009 Prepared by Edward J. Ray, President Oregon State University Today, more    


        2009 Alternative education: Filling the gap in emergency and post-conflict situations Overview Children and youth have a wide range of educational needs in emergency situations, especially when affected    


        INDUSTRIAL REQUIREMENT AND COMMERCE EDUCATION IN GLOBALIZATION Dhaval Desai Ph. D. Scholar, Pacific University, Udaipur, India Email: dhaval_mdt@yahoo.in ABSTRACT The growing phenomenon of globalization,    


        University of Toronto OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST Governance and Administration of Extra-Departmental Units Interdisciplinarity Committee Working Group Report Following approval by Governing    


        Improving recruitment, hiring, and retention practices for VA psychologists: An analysis of the benefits of Title 38 Introduction / Summary Recent attention to Veterans mental health services has again    


        State Budget Update February 2016 2016-17 BUDGET TRAILER BILL SUMMARY The Budget Trailer Bill Language is the implementing statute needed to effectuate the proposals in the annual Budget Bill. The Governor    


        BENG 5613 Syllabus: Page 1 of 9 BENG 5613 - Simulation Modeling of Biological Systems SPECIAL NOTE No. 1: Class Syllabus BENG 5613, beginning in 2014, is being taught in the Spring in both an 8- week term    


        World Bank Group Education Global Practice Smarter Education Systems for Brighter Futures SNAPSHOT The Rise of Results-Based Financing in Education 2015 Education is one of the surest means we have to    


        2 di 7 29/06/2011 9.09 Preamble The General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, meeting at Paris from 17 October 1989 to 16 November 1989 at its twenty-fifth    


        Protection for SHS Students on K to 12 Work Immersion Program Ruth R. Rodriguez, Chief Labor and Employment Officer DOLE-Bureau of Local Employment Presentation Contents DOLE Position on K to 12 Work Immersion    


        Volunteer State Community College Strategic Plan, 2005-2010 Mission: Volunteer State Community College is a public, comprehensive community college offering associate degrees, certificates, continuing    


        ESTABLISHING NEW ASSESSMENT STANDARDS IN THE CONTEXT OF CURRICULUM CHANGE Paper Presented at the 32 nd Annual Conference of the International Association for Educational Assessment (IAEA) held at the Grand    


        Setting the Scene and Getting Inspired Inclusive Education and Schools Sheldon Shaeffer Save the Children Learning Event Inclusive Education: From Theoretical Concept to Effective Practice Bangkok, Thailand    


        Education in Armenia Mher Melik-Baxshian I. INTRODUCTION Education has always received priority in Armenia a country that has a history of literacy going back 1,600 years. From the very beginning the school    


        FORT HAYS STATE UNIVERSITY AT DODGE CITY INTRODUCTION Economic prosperity for individuals and the state relies on an educated workforce. For Kansans to succeed in the workforce, they must have an education    


        Host a fully funded Essex Apprentice Essex Apprenticeships in Engineering and Manufacturing be part of it with Essex County Council Working in Partnership Essex Apprenticeships - be part of it with Essex    


        United states panel on climate change memorandum Welcome to the U.S. Convention on Climate Change. Each of you is a member of a delegation (interest group) at an upcoming meeting to debate and vote on    


        Strategic Plan SJI Strategic Plan 2016.indd 1 Plan Process The Social Justice Institute held a retreat in December 2014, guided by Starfish Practice. Starfish Practice used an Appreciative Inquiry approach    


        Executive Summary Higher education is becoming a major driver of economic competitiveness in an increasingly knowledge-driven global economy. The imperative for countries to improve employment skills calls    


        Post-16 transport to education and training Statutory guidance for local authorities February 2014 Contents Summary 3 Key points 4 The policy landscape 4 Extent and coverage of the 16-18 transport duty    


        Available online at www.sciencedirect.com ScienceDirect Procedia - Social and Behavioral Scien ce s 116 ( 2014 ) 2226 2230 Abstract 5 th World Conference on Educational Sciences - WCES 2013 Modern Trends    


        The Isett Seta Career Guide 2010 Our Vision: The Isett Seta seeks to develop South Africa into an ICT knowledge-based society by encouraging more people to develop skills in this sector as a means of contributing    


        Delaware Performance Appraisal System Building greater skills and knowledge for educators DPAS-II Guide for Administrators (Assistant Principals) Guide for Evaluating Assistant Principals Revised August    


        Moving the Needle: Creating Better Career Opportunities and Workforce Readiness Austin ISD Progress Report 2013 A Letter to the Community Central Texas Job Openings More than 150 people move to the Austin    


        Impact of Educational Reforms to International Cooperation CASE: Finland February 11, 2016 10 th Seminar on Cooperation between Russian and Finnish Institutions of Higher Education Tiina Vihma-Purovaara    


        NOVEMBER 2017 FREE TO NACE MEMBERS $52.00 NONMEMBER PRICE JOB OUTLOOK 2018 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGES AND EMPLOYERS 62 Highland Avenue, Bethlehem, PA 18017 www.naceweb.org 610,868.1421 TABLE OF CONTENTS    


        Available online at www.sciencedirect.com ScienceDirect Procedia - Social and Behavioral Scien ce s 93 ( 2013 ) 794 798 3rd World Conference on Learning, Teaching and Educational Leadership (WCLTA-2012)    


        Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences, 6(9): 310-317, 2012 ISSN 1991-8178 The Comparative Study of Information & Communications Technology Strategies in education of India, Iran & Malaysia countries    


        Texas Healthcare & Bioscience Institute Tom Kowalski President October 27, 2004 What is THBI? The Texas Healthcare and Bioscience Institute (THBI) is a non-profit, public policy research organization,    


        Wednesday, October 2, 2002 http://chronicle.com/daily/2002/10/2002100206n.htm Availability of Grants Largely Offset Tuition Increases for Low-Income Students, U.S. Report Says As the average price of attending    


        Online Master of Business Administration (MBA) Dear Prospective Student, Thank you for contacting the University of Maryland s Robert H. Smith School of Business. By requesting this brochure, you ve taken    


        ts Association position statements address key issues for Pre-K-12 education and describe the shared beliefs that direct united action by boards of education/conseil scolaire fransaskois and their Association.    


        Nurturing Engineering Talent in the Aerospace and Defence Sector K.Venkataramanan 1.0 Outlook of India's Aerospace &DefenceSector The Indian aerospace industry has become one of the fastest growing aerospace    


        Programme Specification BSc (Hons) RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT D GUIDE SEPTEMBER 2016 ROYAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY, CIRENCESTER PROGRAMME SPECIFICATION BSc (Hons) RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT NB The information contained    


        1 Trends in Tuition at Idaho s Public Colleges and Universities: Critical Context for the State s Education Goals June 2017 Idahoans have long valued public higher education, recognizing its importance    


        GUIDE TO EVALUATING DISTANCE EDUCATION AND CORRESPONDENCE EDUCATION A Publication of the Accrediting Commission For Community and Junior Colleges Western Association of Schools and Colleges For use in    


        University of Waterloo Faculty of Mathematics DRAFT Strategic Plan 2012-2017 INTERNAL CONSULTATION DOCUMENT 7 March 2012 University of Waterloo Faculty of Mathematics i MESSAGE FROM THE DEAN Last spring,    


        Paying for Cosmetology School B E AU T Y S C H O O L Financing your new life. beautyschoolnetwork.com beautyschoolnetwork.com pg 1 B E AU T Y S C H O O L Table of Contents How to Pay for Cosmetology School...    


        Dr. Doug Bennett, Superintendent 718 N Main St London, KY 40741-1222 Document Generated On January 13, 2014 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction 1 Description of the School System 2 System's Purpose 4 Notable    


        UPPER SECONDARY CURRICULUM OPTIONS AND LABOR MARKET PERFORMANCE: EVIDENCE FROM A GRADUATES SURVEY IN GREECE Stamatis Paleocrassas, Panagiotis Rousseas, Vassilia Vretakou Pedagogical Institute, Athens Abstract    


        Invest in Opportunity Invest in CUNY Community Colleges Pat Arnow Professional Staff Congress Invest in Opportunity Household Income of CUNY Community College Students     


        Office of the President 1700 Van Hise Hall 1220 Linden Drive Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1559 (608) 262-2321 Phone (608) 262-3985 Fax e-mail: rcross@uwsa.edu website: www.wisconsin.edu/ Testimony in front    


        POLICE COMMISSIONER New Rochelle, NY New Rochelle Community Population 79,557 Source: Vintage 2016 Population Estimates: Population Estimates Located nineteen miles from midtown Manhattan and just thirty    


        Title II of WIOA- Adult Education and Family Literacy Activities 463 Guidance This narrative is intended to provide guidance to all parties interested in the Oklahoma AEFLA competition to be held in FY18    


        UCB Administrative Guidelines for Endowed Chairs I. General A. Purpose An endowed chair provides funds to a chair holder in support of his or her teaching, research, and service, and is supported by a    


        November 3, 2017 Higher Education Pennsylvania s diverse higher education sector - consisting of many different kinds of public and private colleges and universities - helps students gain the knowledge    


        Rethinking the Federal Role in Elementary and Secondary Education By Paul T. Hill 1Are the values or principles embodied in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 the same values or principles    


        Wright State University College of Education and Human Services Strategic Plan, 2008-2013 The College of Education and Human Services (CEHS) worked with a 25-member cross representative committee of faculty    


        Financing Education In Minnesota 2016-2017 Created with Tagul.com A Publication of the Minnesota House of Representatives Fiscal Analysis Department August 2016  Financing Education in Minnesota 2016-17    


        Understanding Co operatives Through Research Dr. Lou Hammond Ketilson Chair, Committee on Co operative Research International Co operative Alliance Presented to the United Nations Expert Group Meeting    


        Board Members Present: Ms. Ellen R. Braden Mr. Robert G. Cooper Ms. Lisa V. Desmarais Dr. Angela Fultz Dr. Gail R. Henson Mr. Montre ale L. Jones Ms. Mary R. Kinney Mr. Barry K. Martin CALL TO ORDER MINUTES    


        TRAVEL & TOURISM CAREER GUIDE CULTURE, ARTS, TOURISM, HOSPITALITY & SPORT SECTOR EDUCATION & TRAINING AUTHORITY (CATHSSETA) a world of career opportunities (011) 217 0600 www.cathsseta.org.za 1 Newton    


        The Honorable Kevin Brady The Honorable Richard Neal Chairman Ranking Member Ways and Means Committee Ways and Means Committee United States House of Representatives United States House of Representatives    


        A European inventory on validation of non-formal and informal learning Finland By Anne-Mari Nevala (ECOTEC Research and Consulting) ECOTEC Research & Consulting Limited Priestley House 12-26 Albert Street    


        Instituto Juan Pablo II Tecnico Especializado Holy Trinity Parish Social Justice Tithe Grant Response to Second Round Interrogatories Aim of Project To obtain financial support of teachers salaries for    


        Massachusetts Juvenile Justice Education Case Study Results Principal Investigator: Thomas G. Blomberg Dean and Sheldon L. Messinger Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice Prepared by: George Pesta    


        Common Core Postsecondary Collaborative Year One Learning Lab April 25, 2013 Sheraton Wild Horse Pass Chandler, Arizona At this Learning Lab, we will share and discuss An Overview of Common Core Postsecondary    


        Howell, Greg (2011) Book Review: Build Lean: Transforming construction using Lean Thinking by Adrian Terry & Stuart Smith. Lean Construction Journal 2011 pp 3-8 Book Review: Build Lean: Transforming construction    


        CONSULTATION ON THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMPETENCY STANDARD FOR LICENSED IMMIGRATION ADVISERS Introduction Background 1. The Immigration Advisers Licensing Act 2007 (the Act) requires anyone giving advice    


        THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING CURRICULUM FOR BASIC EDUCATION STANDARD I AND II 2016 Ministry of Education, Science,Technology and Vocational    


        STRENGTHENING RURAL CANADA COMMUNITY: SALMO, BRITISH COLUMBIA Strengthening Rural Canada: INTRODUCTION Salmo, British Columbia The Strengthening Rural Canada project for Salmo, developed through a multi-agency    


        ISSN (Online) 2162-9161 Opening Essay Darrell A. Hamlin, Ph.D. Fort Hays State University Author Note Darrell A. Hamlin, Guest Editor. Associate Professor, Department of Criminal Justice, Fort Hays State    


        Dr. Jason Adkins, Superintendent 1710 Alabama Avenue Jasper, AL 35501 Document Generated On November 3, 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction 1 Description of the School System 2 System's Purpose 4 Notable    


        Promotion and Tenure Guidelines School of Social Work Spring 2015 Approved 10.19.15 Table of Contents 1.0 Introduction..3 1.1 Professional Model of the School of Social Work...3 2.0 Guiding Principles....3    


        Procedures for Academic Program Review Office of Institutional Effectiveness, Academic Planning and Review Last Revision: August 2013 1 Table of Contents Background and BOG Requirements... 2 Rationale    


        The Higher Learning Commission Action Project Directory Columbus State Community College Project Details Title Columbus State Community College's Master Planning Project (Phases III and IV) Status COMPLETED    


        Guidelines for the Use of the Continuing Education Unit (CEU) The UNC Policy Manual The essential educational mission of the University is augmented through a broad range of activities generally categorized    


        Swinburne University of Technology 2020 Plan science technology innovation Swinburne University of Technology 2020 Plan Embracing change This is an exciting time for Swinburne. Tertiary education is undergoing    


        EDUCATION AND DECENTRALIZATION Skopje, 2006 Education and Decentralization: User-friendly Manual Author: Jovan Ananiev, MSc. Project management: OSCE Spillover Monitor Mission to Skopje/Confidence Building    


        TACOMA HOUSING AUTHORITY CHILDREN s SAVINGS ACCOUNT for the CHILDREN of NEW SALISHAN, Tacoma, WA last revised July 10, 2014 1. SUMMARY The Tacoma Housing Authority (THA) plans to offer individual development    


        Copyright Academy of Management Learning and Education Reviews Build, Borrow, or Buy: Solving the Growth Dilemma By Laurence Capron and Will Mitchell, Boston, MA: Harvard Business Review Press, 2012. 256    


        UNIVERSITY OF DERBY JOB DESCRIPTION JOB TITLE DEPARTMENT / COLLEGE LOCATION Associate Professor: Learning and Teaching Centre for Excellence in Learning and Teaching Kedleston Road JOB NUMBER 0749-17 SALARY    


        1.0 INTRODUCTION 1.1 Overview Section 11.515, Florida Statutes, was created by the 1996 Florida Legislature for the purpose of conducting performance reviews of school districts in Florida. The statute    


        PROPOSAL FOR NEW UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM Institution Submitting Proposal Degree Designation as on Diploma Title of Proposed Degree Program EEO Status CIP Code Academic Unit (e.g. Department, Division, School)    


        Undergraduates Views of K-12 Teaching as a Career Choice A Report Prepared for The Professional Educator Standards Board Prepared by: Ana M. Elfers Margaret L. Plecki Elise St. John Rebecca Wedel University    


        Michigan State University Dean of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources Michigan State University (MSU), the nation s premier land-grant university, invites applications and nominations for    


        WORK OF LEADERS GROUP REPORT ASSESSMENT TO ACTION. Sample Report (9 People) Thursday, February 0, 016 This report is provided by: Your Company 13 Main Street Smithtown, MN 531 www.yourcompany.com INTRODUCTION    


        FEASIBILITY OF USING ELEARNING IN CAPACITY BUILDING OF ICT TRAINERS AND DELIVERY OF TECHNICAL, VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING (TVET) COURSES IN SRI LANKA Janaka Jayalath Director / Information Systems,    


        Department of Finance and Economics 1 DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND ECONOMICS McCoy Hall Room 504 T: 512.245.2547 F: 512.245.3089 www.fin-eco.mccoy.txstate.edu (http://www.fin-eco.mccoy.txstate.edu) The mission    


        Pascagoula School District Mr. Boyd West, Principal 4307 Gautier-Vancleave Road Gautier, MS 39553-4800 Document Generated On January 16, 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction 1 Description of the School    


        Knowledge for the Future Developments in Higher Education and Research in the Netherlands Don F. Westerheijden Contribution to Vision Seminar Higher education and Research 2030 Helsinki, 2017-06-14 How    