##LINK: https://ideas.repec.org/p/sip/dpaper/06-015.html
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: The Net Neutrality Debate: Twenty Five Years after United States v. AT&T and 120 Years after the Act to Regulate Commerce
##METHOD: paragraphs

 (Stanford University)



Cited by:  Shane Greenstein, 2008.
"Economic Experiments and Neutrality in Internet Access,"
NBER Chapters, in:  Innovation Policy and the Economy, Volume 8, pages 59-109,
National Bureau of Economic Research, Inc.


 Shane Greenstein, 2007.
 "Economic Experiments and Neutrality in Internet Access,"
NBER Working Papers 
13158, National Bureau of Economic Research, Inc.




  Robin Mansell, 2010.
"The life and times of the Information Society,"
Prometheus, Taylor & Francis Journals, vol. 28(2), pages 165-186.




Statistics
Access and download statistics

All material on this site has been provided by the respective publishers and authors. You can help correct errors and omissions. When requesting a correction, please mention this item's handle: RePEc:sip:dpaper:06-015. See general information about how to correct material in RePEc.
      

      For technical questions regarding this item, or to correct its authors, title, abstract, bibliographic or download information, contact: . General contact details of provider: https://edirc.repec.org/data/cestaus.html .


      If you have authored this item and are not yet registered with RePEc, we encourage you to do it here. This allows to link your profile to this item. It also allows you to accept potential citations to this item that we are uncertain about.
      
We have no bibliographic references for this item. You can help adding them by using this form .

      If you know of missing items citing this one, you can help us creating those links by adding the relevant references in the same way as above, for each refering item. If you are a registered author of this item, you may also want to check the "citations" tab in your RePEc Author Service profile, as there may be some citations waiting for confirmation.
      

        For technical questions regarding this item, or to correct its authors, title, abstract, bibliographic or download information, contact: Anne Shor The email address of this maintainer does not seem to be valid anymore. Please ask Anne Shor to update the entry or send us the correct address
 (email available below). General contact details of provider: https://edirc.repec.org/data/cestaus.html .












      Please note that corrections may take a couple of weeks to filter through
      the various RePEc services.
Follow serials, authors, keywords & more
Subscribe to new additions to RePEc
Public profiles for Economics researchers
Various research rankings in Economics
Who was a student of whom, using RePEc
Curated articles & papers on economics topics
Upload your paper to be listed on RePEc and IDEAS
Blog aggregator for economics research
Cases of plagiarism in Economics
Pretend you are at the helm of an economics department
Data, research, apps & more from the St. Louis Fed
Initiative for open bibliographies in Economics
News about RePEc
Questions about IDEAS and RePEc
RePEc volunteers
Publishers indexing in RePEc
Found an error or omission?
Opportunities to help RePEc
Have your research listed on RePEc
Have your institution's/publisher's output listed on RePEc
Use data assembled by RePEc