##LINK: https://www.medianama.com/2020/06/223-in-net-neutrality-violation-hbo-max-to-be-zero-rated-on-att-in-the-us-report/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: In net neutrality violation, HBO Max to be zero rated on AT&T in the US: Report | MediaNama
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Topics: AT&T ,  Net Neutrality 
 
 
 News 
 
 In net neutrality violation, HBO Max to be zero rated on AT&T in the US: Report 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 By Aroon Deep 
 
 
 Published   June 3, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In a net neutrality violation, AT&T will not count HBO Max against wireless internet users’ data caps, The Verge  reported . A company executive told The Verge that the HBO’s streaming service, which AT&T owns, will be a part of the Sponsored Data program, where content providers pay on users’ behalf when the latter consume data from partnered content providers. We have reached out to AT&T for comment. 
 Since AT&T is essentially sponsoring its own data, this creates an unlevel playing field between HBO Max and other streaming services. Given that the US’s wireless internet is  among  the world’s costliest, exemptions to data caps can be a significant advantage for content providers. That competitive problem becomes more worrying when the content provider in question is owned by the carrier. 
 In the US, while net neutrality laws were  revoked  under the Trump administration, zero rating was never illegal, and a  review  into those practices initiated under the previous FCC administration was halted in 2017. This gives companies like AT&T and T-Mobile (whose Binge-On program allows content providers to have their data exempted from caps) free rein to choose whose services can be more attractive to customers on account of costing nothing. 
 AT&T also throttles some video by default for mobile data users, reducing video quality to 480p, under what it calls the  Stream Saver  program. This program is opt-out, so users have to contact the carrier to disable it. 
 
 TikTok joins T-Mobile’s BingeOn:  Sometime before 15 February, TikTok  joined  T-Mobile’s BingeOn program, allowing the app to bypass users’ data caps. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 In this article: AT&T ,  Net Neutrality 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Latest Headlines 
 
 
 RBI concerned with big tech’s involvement in financial services 
 July 2, 2021 
 
 
 NSA claims Russia used ‘brute force’ hacking methods to target govt organisations; Russia denies allegations 
 July 2, 2021 
 
 
 Vodafone Idea says no need for plan B in case funding falls through 
 July 2, 2021 
 
 
 I&B Ministry, Intelligence Bureau told govt that IT Act does not allow regulation of online content: Report 
 July 2, 2021 
 
 
 Koo releases first IT Rules-mandated compliance report on content removals in India 
 July 2, 2021 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 
 
 
 
 Tweet 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 You May Also Like 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 Telegraph Act might be amended ahead of 5G rollout: Report 
 
 
 We missed this earlier: The Telegraph Act of 1885, the foundational legislation governing telecommunications in India, might get a wide-ranging amendment, Mint reported on... 
 
 Aroon Deep March 26, 2021 
 
 
   
     
 
 
