##LINK: https://rethinkresearch.biz/articles/what-price-net-neutrality
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality,zero-rating
##TITLE: What price Net Neutrality? Telefonica zero rates Netflix in LATAM - Rethink
##METHOD: article 1


Zero rating and its close relative sponsored data have been as divisive as Brexit in the UK because they pit network neutrality against commercial freedom, but now they are winning more of the battles. The tide really turned against net neutrality with Trump’s surprise elevation to the White House, but zero rating had already been gaining ground in Europe where it was more favored by regulators than in the US under President Obama. AT&T had been a cheerleader for sponsored data where third party OTT service providers pay for data consumed by users of services delivered via a partner operator’s cellular network. Under strict zero rating on the other hand the operator effectively pays by discounting data associated with a given service from their monthly allowance. When a user hits the monthly quota they might be blocked or scaled down from say 4G to 3G or even 2G for general browsing but be able to continue as normal while accessing the zero rated or sponsored service. The difference between the two is often blurred and in practice a content provider such as Netflix will strike a deal with a mobile operator to zero rate data associated with the service where both parties gain. Netflix has access to new customers, but in return gives up some of the subscription fee to the mobile operator. AT&T launched its sponsored data service in 2014 pitched at all OTT service providers which could be ecommerce or music streaming sites and not just those offering video. Under a regime advocating strict net neutrality where no one service should be allowed to gain preferential terms for Internet delivery over others, AT&T’s service was criticized by the FCC. Even in December 2016 just after Trump had been elected, the FCC sent a letter to AT&T announcing its preliminary conclusion that the carrier was violating net neutrality rules. Such noises were also made about Verizon’s similar offering introduced after AT&T’s. But as Trump pulled the rug from net neutrality and made clear his support for ISPs to have greater freedom of action, that preliminary conclusion was never turned into action. Just a year later in December 2017 the FCC moved to dismantle net neutrality. Meanwhile in Europe advocates of zero rating had been meeting some resistance from Internet freedom advocates but were still prevailing. Deutsche Telekom had developed its StreamOn service in Germany on the same basis as its subsidiary T-Mobile US had done with BingeOn, zero rating data associated with the video and music available with it. Consumer advocates waged a concerted campaign against it, with the Verbraucherzentrale Bundesverband (VZBV), an umbrella body for regional consumer rights associations, calling on Deutsche Telekom to raise data caps so that in effect all services enjoyed zero rating. However regulator Bundesnetzagentur disagreed and waved through StreamOn since under EU law there was no reason why Telcos should not exempt certain services from their data caps. There were a few caveats, notably that to comply with emerging EU roaming regulations the zero-rating had to be transportable to all member states. But against this regulatory background Telefonica had also been advancing zero rating in Spain, having campaigned strongly for it. In particular it struck a deal with Netflix, which has now been extended to all the Latin American countries where it operates, including Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela. This extends to integration of Netflix into almost all Telefonica pay TV platforms at the billing as well as service level, including set top boxes and the Movistar Play Video OTT service, with the zero rating for mobile data. Despite such progress for zero rating it is too soon to write off net neutrality entirely. It is still promoted by some countries such as India, whose regulator published recommendations strongly backing net neutrality in November 2017 having earlier blocked Facebook’s “Free Basics” project on the grounds it brought discriminatory tariffs, although it was supposed to promote affordable Internet access through partnership with a few major tech companies including Samsung, Ericsson and Qualcomm. This rather showed up how Internet freedom does not always coincide with consumers’ immediate interests, whatever the longer-term merits. It is also true that even in the absence of net neutrality enforcement some ISPs may still adhere to the spirit of it. Comcast appears to have done this in the US given its support for a ban on paid prioritization and a promise it will not discriminate. However Comcast does favor special treatment for specialized services that may not be available to all Internet users, rather like the EU line. Comcast has not defined clearly what it means by specialized services, but it seems clear there is little support from any major service provider for a pure form of net neutrality, at any rate outside India.