##LINK: https://www.marketingweek.com/telefonica-apple-imposing-itself-on-the-mobile-web/
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Telefonica: 'Apple imposing itself on the mobile web' – Marketing Week
##METHOD: article 8



   Telefonica: ‘Apple imposing itself on the mobile web’   Telefonica and Mozilla are banding together launching a campaign to challenge Apple’s dominance of the mobile web, with brands such as the Financial Times already experimenting with their alternative suggestions to mobile apps.  
   
 
 
 
		By  Ronan Shields   
 
 
 4 Sep 2013 
 12:59 pm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The mobile operator, owner of the O2 brand, kicked off the campaign yesterday (3 September) dubbing it ‘The Open Agenda’ with representatives of the pair of companies openly criticising Apple’s dominance of mobile web usage. 
 Speaking at Campus Party yesterday, hosted by the operator’s digital arm Telefonica Digital at The O2, Daniel Appelquist, Telefonica’s open web advocate, argued app store owners such as Apple as are “imposing themselves on the value chain”. 
 Speaking on a panel session, he said: “There’s some more forces working towards a closed future – particularly with apps – at present. We’re launching a campaign to promote a civil discourse for a more open internet and how it can have a positive impact on government and people.” 
 As part of the campaign Telefonica, which has a vested interest in wresting control of mobile web usage from app store owners such as Apple and Google, as well as open source operating system community Linux and Mozilla are encouraging businesses and government authorities to adopt an “open web” approach to their online activities.   
 This involves encouraging them to develop their websites using HTML5 web code, which allows brands to develop just one site that performs equally well on a desktop, tablet or smartphone, as opposed to mobile apps – primarily through its tie-up with Firefox provider Mozilla. 
 The trio also intend to advance “The Open Agenda” by encouraging brands and media companies to realise the potential of abandoning the “walled garden” of using operating systems controlled by Apple and Google. 
 Speaking at yesterday’s panel session, Christian Heilmann, a web evangelist at Mozilla, said: “We have to get better at articulating to people that you don’t have to pay [Apple and other app store owners] to play.” 
 Telefonica and Mozilla have already produced a series of mobile devices that use the Firefox web browser as an operating system – as an alternative to Apple’s iOS or Google’s Android. 
 According to Applequist the Financial Times, which famously withdrew its suite of apps from Apple’s App Store, is  already experimenting  with the technology. 
 Heilmann described the motivation for the campaign as providing consumers and companies as maintaining the original open web principles of the worldwide web.  
 He said: “We invented the web so we wouldn’t need apps everywhere. It’s incredible, we’re going back to that!” 
 Telefonica and Mozilla’s partnership is part of a wider  cross-industry initiative  with parties such as W3C, Linux and training academy Decoded in order to promote open web standards plus encourage large organisations to share data with third parties in order to promote innovation.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 
 News   Apple   Digital Marketing   O2 


 
 
 
 
 
 Opinion   Confidence is on the rise but issues remain prevalent   Mindi Chahal   
 It may be the good weather or the small but gradual increases in the UK’s economic growth but consumers, marketers and the research industry are all reporting an increase in confidence – however issues raised are still a cause for concern.    
 
 
 
 4 Sep 2013 
 9:51 am 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Analysis   Uncategorized   Getting back to basics and football sponsorship: Your Marketing Week   Lucy Tesseras   
 At the end of every week we look at the key stories, offering our view on what they mean for you and the industry. From the value of being an outsider to the story of how the England football team got its first sponsor, it’s been a busy week. I’m stepping in for Russell this week, so here is my take. 
 
   Subscriber Exclusive    Subscriber Exclusive 
 
 2 Jul 2021 
 4:00 pm 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Analysis   Uncategorized   ‘Surround yourself with black belts’: Mars’s global president on being a successful leader   Manny Pham   
 As former marketer Fiona Dawson prepares to retire from Mars after 33 years, she advises marketers to know where their strengths and weaknesses lie and to stop chasing perfection as it will only hinder progress. 
 
   Subscriber Exclusive    Subscriber Exclusive 
 
 2 Jul 2021 
 6:55 am 
 
 
 
