##LINK: https://www.matrixlaw.co.uk/member/eleni-mitrophanous/
##KEYWORDS: zero-rating
##TITLE: Eleni Mitrophanous QC - Matrix Chambers
##METHOD: paragraphs

“Industrious, focussed and enthusiastic. She has no weaknesses” "Very good, very learned and very on it.” 
Eleni has particular expertise in European law, VAT/Excise law, Public law, Commercial law and Human Rights law. She acts for individuals and commercial organisations as well as public authorities. Eleni was on the Attorney General’s C, B and A Panels of Counsel prior to taking silk.
Legal 500 2021 commented: “She is industrious, focussed and enthusiastic. She has no weaknesses.” Chambers & Partners 2021 commented: “Very commercial and practical. Her advice is always prompt and well thought out.”
Ranked as a leading junior in EU and Competition law, Eleni was described as follows: “very hardworking and thorough”; “a clever, thorough and solid advocate”; and said to have “very detailed and sound knowledge”. She undertakes work covering all aspects of EU law ranging from competition law and issues of state aid to advising on EU law aspects of asset freezing cases and consumer credit. She is also a member of the editorial team of ‘The European Advocate’.
Recent EU VAT work includes C-40/15 Aspiro, C-246/16 Enzo Di Maura and C-647/17 Skatteverket v Srf Konsulterna AB. Recent EU VAT work includes C-40/15 Aspiro, C-246/16 Enzo Di Maura, C-647/17 Skatteverket v Srf Konsulterna AB, C-279/19 WR, C-459/19 Wellcome trust Ltd and C-43/19 Vodafone Portugal and C-156/20 Zipvit
Chambers and Partners rank Eleni as a leading junior in Indirect taxation. Chambers and Partners commented: “Very good, very learned and very on it.”; “She is very able, very personable and a very elegant draftswoman.”;“Excellent.” “Takes the good points and makes them well”;  “She is very, very capable, easy to work with and bright. She has a reputation as a tenacious advocate”; “Very commercial and practical, her advice is always prompt and well thought out.” She was described as “very bright and really knows her stuff” by the Legal 500 (2007/8) in Commercial Litigation.
As well as general commercial work, Eleni undertakes a great deal of indirect taxation work. She has been instructed in numerous zero-rating cases (including Innocent FTT, Skinner Upper Tribunal, Nestle Upper Tribunal, Jigsaw Upper Tribunal), exemption cases (Westinsure Upper Tribunal, Aspiro CJEU) and cases relating to conflicts with EU law and limitation issues, as well as judicial reviews (Telefonica, Megantic, Livewire and Olympia Technologies, 1st Alternative & Delta). She also has extensive experience in principal/agency cases: Secret Hotels v HMRC in the Supreme Court, Hotels4U, Lowcost, Opodo, Alpha Accommodation and HotelConnect in the FTT.
She has acted in a number of multi-million pound cases before the Court of Appeal including Iveco v HMRC, Adecco v HMRC, GMAC v HMRC, BT v HMRC, Metropolitan International Schools v HMRC, Revenue and Customs Commissioners v News Corp UK & Ireland Ltd and Zipvit v HMRC (currently on a reference to the CJEU from the Supreme Court).
Eleni undertakes a range of judicial review and human rights work. She was involved in a number of cases brought by bus operators against the Department of Transport regarding concessionary fares involving EU and human rights as well as public law issues. She was named ‘Lawyer of the Week’ in The Times 15 March 2005 for her work on the Shabina Begum case led by Cherie Booth QC. Eleni has recently been instructed in the Sophocleous and Others v Foreign & Commonwealth Office and Ministry of Defence claim on behalf of claimants alleging assaults by UK government agents during the Cyprus Emergency.
She acts in judicial reviews in particular in relation to EU tax law (including Telefonica, Megantic, Livewire and Olympia Technologies, Metropolitan International Schools, R (on the application of First Alternative Medical Staffing Ltd and another) v Revenue and Customs Commissioners, Good Law Project (Uber as interested party). Eleni is currently also instructed in R (Heathrow Airport) v Her Majesty’s Treasury and HMRC, one of The Lawyer’s Top 20 cases for 2021
B.A. Law (1992) New Hall, Cambridge, Class I
B.C.L. (1993) Corpus Christi College, Oxford
L.L.M. in European and International Law, European University Institute, Florence (1993-1994)
D.Phil in Law (1998) Corpus Christi College, Oxford
Bar Vocational Course (1999) Inns of Court School of Law, London
Pupillage at Brick Court Chambers (1999-2000)
Honourable Society of the Inner Temple
Major Scholarship 1998
Duke of Edinburgh Entrance Scholarship 1998
Ede and Ravenscroft Scholarship 1999
Department of Education
E.U.I. Scholarship awarded for L.L.M. at E.U.I.
British Academy
B.C.L. Studentship awarded for B.C.L. at Corpus Christi College, Oxford
New Hall, Cambridge
Scholarship awarded for achievement in B.A. law finals
Eleni is co-author with Timothy Lyons QC on a chapter on supplies outside the EC for Paul Lasok QC’s ‘Value Added Tax, Commentary and Analysis’, Sweet & Maxwell.
Tenant, Hailsham Chambers 2000-04
FRU – pro bono work in Employment and Social Security cases
Tutor in Jurisprudence, Pembroke College, Oxford
Tutor in Jurisprudence, St.Hilda’s College, Oxford
Tutor in Criminal law, Buckland University
Greek (bilingual), some Italian and French

                      "Industrious, focussed and enthusiastic. She has no weaknesses."                    

                      "Very commercial and practical. Her advice is always prompt and well thought out."                    

                      "Always exquisitely well prepared and very persuasive in the courtroom.” “She’s very clever and will fight the client’s corner as long as necessary."                    

                      "Very good, very learned and very on it.” “An extremely good junior counsel. Very bright."                    

                      "An intelligent junior who will resolutely pursue arguments in support of her client’s case."                    

                      "She is very able, very personable and a very elegant draftswoman."                    

                      "A clever, thorough and solid advocate."                    

                      "Excellent.” “Takes the good points and makes them well."                    

                      "Very detailed and sound knowledge."                    

                      "She is very, very capable, easy to work with and bright. She has a reputation as a tenacious advocate."                    

                      "Very commercial and practical, her advice is always prompt and well thought out."                    

                      "Very hardworking and thorough."                    

                      "Very bright and really knows her stuff."                    
Court of Appeal dismisses Heathrow Airport Ltd’s applications for judicial review over VAT reclaim schemes
Matrix featured in two of The Lawyer’s Top 20 cases for 2021
Jamas Hodivala and Eleni Mitrophanous appointed Queens Counsel
“Industrious, focussed and enthusiastic. She has no weaknesses” "Very good, very learned and very on it.” 

Contact Eleni: elenimitrophanous@matrixlaw.co.uk | +44 (0)20 7404 3447
Contact Eleni's Practice Team (Team X): TeamX@matrixlaw.co.uk
Eleni has particular expertise in European law, VAT/Excise law, Public law, Commercial law and Human Rights law. She acts for individuals and commercial organisations as well as public authorities. Eleni was on the Attorney General’s C, B and A Panels of Counsel prior to taking silk.
Legal 500 2021 commented: “She is industrious, focussed and enthusiastic. She has no weaknesses.” Chambers & Partners 2021 commented: “Very commercial and practical. Her advice is always prompt and well thought out.”
"Industrious, focussed and enthusiastic. She has no weaknesses."
"Very commercial and practical. Her advice is always prompt and well thought out."
"Always exquisitely well prepared and very persuasive in the courtroom.” “She’s very clever and will fight the client’s corner as long as necessary."
"Very good, very learned and very on it.” “An extremely good junior counsel. Very bright."
"An intelligent junior who will resolutely pursue arguments in support of her client’s case."
"She is very able, very personable and a very elegant draftswoman."
"A clever, thorough and solid advocate."
"Excellent.” “Takes the good points and makes them well."
"Very detailed and sound knowledge."
"She is very, very capable, easy to work with and bright. She has a reputation as a tenacious advocate."
"Very commercial and practical, her advice is always prompt and well thought out."
"Very hardworking and thorough."
"Very bright and really knows her stuff."
Please consider the environment and only print this material if you absolutely need to. Please dispose of this material responsibly.
Matrix Chambers has 'a stellar range of exceptional, experienced, juniors and top-level silk
The support staff at Matrix Chambers are very helpful and friendly and the calibre of barristers both at the senior and junior level is exceptional.
The client service is second to none. Nothing is too much trouble and you always receive a helpful response.
The 'outstanding' Matrix Chambers is 'a stellar set and provide excellent representation to clients as well as support to solicitors through excellent training
Their clerking teams really are a cut above: extremely capable, well organised and well resourced.
 London
                Griffin Building
                Gray’s Inn
                London WC1R 5LN
                DX400 Chancery Lane, London 
 e: matrix@matrixlaw.co.uk
                t: +44 (0)20 7404 3447
                f: +44 (0)20 7404 3448


 Geneva
                Rue Général-Dufour
                151204 Geneva 
 e: matrix@matrixlaw.co.uk
                t: +41 (0)22 310 6875
                f: +41 (0)22 310 6876


Brussels
                Carrefour De L'Europe 2
                1000 Bruxelles
                Belgium 
 e: matrix@matrixlaw.co.uk
                t: +32 (0)25 176 107
