##LINK: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/best-decision-making-tool-uncertain-times-leesa-soulodre
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Decision Making Tool for Uncertain Times
##METHOD: article 1


Decision Making Tool for Uncertain Times Published on March 21, 2020 March 21, 2020 • 24 Likes • 3 Comments Report this post Leesa Soulodre Follow VC. Educator. Mentor. Speaker. Author. Superconnector. Like 24 Comment 3 Share LinkedIn Facebook Twitter 0 We are all being asked to make decisions for our families and our company that we may have never had to ask ourselves before, in times of great volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. For this reason, I am sharing a simple decision making tool that I learned from my mentor, the esteemed Mike Love. Mike Love is the former Chairman of Burson Marstellar, the former Communications Director for McDonalds during the Mad Cow Crisis, Microsoft during the anti-trust wars and British Telecom during net neutrality. He was also former Political advisor to Margaret Thatcher. This tool is one that ensures you are not kept awake at night by concerns about the quality of your decision making in times like these. Critical Thinking Framework for Complex Decision Making When you need to make a decision in times of great instability or uncertainty or simply many shades of grey, ask yourself your L.E.A.D.S. L. Is this legal? both by the letter and the spirit of the law. E. Is this Ethical? based on your standards and international standards. A. Is this Acceptable? based on the expectations of those stakeholders who matter most. D. Is this Defendable? If it is on the front page of the financial times can you defend it? S. Is this Sensible? Sometimes it passes the L.E.A.D test but it is simply not sensible. 2 Globally Responsible Leadership Questions Finally, two globally responsible leadership questions - 1. Does this decision change who we are as a company (Our identity - who we say we are as a company and how we operate) and most importantly, 2. Does this decision change who I am as a person. When to use L.E.A.D.S. I have found when navigating on the frontiers of the bleeding edge, that this mental model is a very useful tool not only as an individual but also for our leadership team, making decisions as a company. It challenges the group think and unconscious biases, and by default it encourages a discourse that invokes critical and creative thinking and ensures all voices are equally heard at the table. Ideal for Board and Team meetings, and personal decision making. I am confident that it can serve you well too. All the best.  If you liked this post, do take the time to share it with your networks. People are operating at very high levels of stress at the moment, and a simple mental model may help to make all the difference in their lives, both now, and for the future. -- Leesa Soulodre is a General Partner of r3i Ventures and an Adjunct Faculty Member of Singapore Management University and IE Business School. She is a member of the Board of the Australian Accelerator, RunwayHQ, and serves as Board Advisor to a portfolio of Medtech and DeepTech startups around the world. An Alumnus of HEC Paris, New York Stern School of Business and the London School of Economics and Political Science. Published By Leesa Soulodre VC. Educator. Mentor. Speaker. Author. Superconnector. Follow Need to make hard decisions? An essential Critical and Creative Thinking model for times of great uncertainty  #MikeLove   #LEADS   #GRI   #creativethinking   #criticalthinking   #femalefounder   #womenintech   3 comments Sign in  to leave your comment Show more comments.