##LINK: https://medium.com/%40leesa.soulodre
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Leesa Soulodre – Medium
##METHOD: paragraphs

Sign in
Mar 25, 2020
We are all being asked to make decisions for our families and our company that we may have never had to ask ourselves before, in times of great volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity.
For this reason, I am sharing a simple decision making tool that I learned from my mentor, the esteemed Mike Love. Mike Love is the former Chairman of Burson Marstellar, the former Communications Director for McDonalds during the Mad Cow Crisis, Microsoft during the anti-trust wars and British Telecom during net neutrality. He was also former Political advisor to Margaret Thatcher.
This tool is one that ensures…
Read more  · 2 min read
Dec 13, 2019
STRATIFICARE MAKES INROADS INTO LATIN AMERICA
This November StratifiCare’s CEO, Anthony Chua, traveled from Singapore to Mexico and Brazil to make inroads into supporting two of the world’s largest countries impacted by dengue fever.
Among the first batch of Singapore’s startups that are planning to make in-roads into the LATAM market, they were fortunate to have both NUS Enterprise and Enterprise Singapore’ support for this business delegation, accompanying our Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong who was on four-day visit, at the invitation of Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. …
Read more  · 5 min read
Dec 13, 2019
Context matters.
Asia will be home to over 60% of the world’s population aged 65 and over by 2030. That is over 500 million people. Medical insurance disruptors like Rosaline Chow Koo at CxA Group note that the gross cost of healthcare benefits is increasing by 10% every year, and soon, healthcare will simply be unaffordable in many markets in the region.
We are endemic with chronic diseases. The prevalence of obesity has doubled since 1980, and while we have a range of policy levers in place and a plethora of new technologies to address it in the pipeline, it’s…
Read more  · 14 min read
Venture Builder. EiR. VC. Board Director. Adjunct. Author. Xennial.
About
Write
Help
Legal
Get the Medium app