##LINK: https://www.legal500.com/firms/31689-kochhar-co/32958-bangalore-india/lawyers/610681-abhilekh-verma/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Abhilekh Verma > Kochhar & Co. > Bangalore > India | Lawyer Profile
##METHOD: paragraphs

Coroprate Law, Mergers and Acquisitions, Employment Law
Senior Partner

Senior Partner
Abhilekh Verma is a Senior Partner in the corporate commercial practice of the Firm. He is also a key member of the Firm’s merger & acquisition and private equity practice group.
Abhilekh’ s professional experience spans over two decades with specialisation in corporate & business laws, having extensive experience on advising clients on cross-border and domestic mergers & acquisitions, complex joint ventures, private equity transactions, strategic tie-ups, foreign inward and outbound investment. Abhilekh has advised numerous multinational and domestic companies across industry segments on legal and regulatory issues involved at various stages of project conception and execution, including on entry strategies, structuring and other general corporate commercial matters.
Abhilekh has also advised various stakeholders in high growth sectors such as the information technology (IT), information technology enabled services (ITES) like telecom, e-commerce, etc., and on infrastructure projects like surface transport and aviation. He has extensively advised such clients on full spectrum of legal and regulatory issues ranging from project conception and execution including structuring of investment, financing arrangement, special purpose vehicle (SPV), risk assessment, allocation and mitigation, concession agreements, EPC contracts and O&M contracts.
Prior to joining Kochhar & Co., Abhilekh has been a Partner with two of India’s top-tier law firms. He has also worked as an In-House Counsel at Bharti-Airtel and assisted with the group’s domestic as well as international business pursuits. While in Bharti, Abhilekh was involved in formulation and structuring of network/capacity/IT outsourcing contracts with Nokia, Ericsson and IBM and carrier contracts with leading telecom carriers like France Telecom, British Telecom, Verizon and AT&T.
Abhilekh has authored and contributed articles/whitepapers in leading journals and business publications on various topical issues, from time to time. including on insolvency code, e-commerce, net neutrality, spectrum trading, product liability. Abhilekh, has also been an expert speaker and panellist on such topics at various seminars and conferences organised by leading Chambers of Commerce and industry bodies. Additionally, Abhilekh has also been invited as an industry mentor and guest faculty by top Indian B-schools including the Management Development Institute (Gurgaon) and IILM (New Delhi) to deliver lectures on business laws, law of contract, negotiable instruments, anti-trust laws and the exchange management regime.

Abhilekh’ s professional experience spans over two decades with specialisation in corporate & business laws, having extensive experience on advising clients on cross-border and domestic mergers & acquisitions, complex joint ventures, private equity transactions, strategic tie-ups, foreign inward and outbound investment. Abhilekh has advised numerous multinational and domestic companies across industry segments on legal and regulatory issues involved at various stages of project conception and execution, including on entry strategies, structuring and other general corporate commercial matters.
Abhilekh has also advised various stakeholders in high growth sectors such as the information technology (IT), information technology enabled services (ITES) like telecom, e-commerce, etc., and on infrastructure projects like surface transport and aviation. He has extensively advised such clients on full spectrum of legal and regulatory issues ranging from project conception and execution including structuring of investment, financing arrangement, special purpose vehicle (SPV), risk assessment, allocation and mitigation, concession agreements, EPC contracts and O&M contracts.
Prior to joining Kochhar & Co., Abhilekh has been a Partner with two of India’s top-tier law firms. He has also worked as an In-House Counsel at Bharti-Airtel and assisted with the group’s domestic as well as international business pursuits. While in Bharti, Abhilekh was involved in formulation and structuring of network/capacity/IT outsourcing contracts with Nokia, Ericsson and IBM and carrier contracts with leading telecom carriers like France Telecom, British Telecom, Verizon and AT&T.
Abhilekh has authored and contributed articles/whitepapers in leading journals and business publications on various topical issues, from time to time. including on insolvency code, e-commerce, net neutrality, spectrum trading, product liability. Abhilekh, has also been an expert speaker and panellist on such topics at various seminars and conferences organised by leading Chambers of Commerce and industry bodies. Additionally, Abhilekh has also been invited as an industry mentor and guest faculty by top Indian B-schools including the Management Development Institute (Gurgaon) and IILM (New Delhi) to deliver lectures on business laws, law of contract, negotiable instruments, anti-trust laws and the exchange management regime.
English, Hindi

Bar Council of Delhi.
Delhi High Court Bar Association.



LL.B, Campus Law Centre, Delhi University, New Delhi
B.A (Economics and Sociology), University of Lucknow


Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
Enter the destination URL
Or link to existing content