##LINK: https://m.economictimes.com/industry/telecom/call-drops-more-about-operational-issues-vodafone-ceo/articleshow/49356809.cms
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Call drops more about operational issues: Vodafone CEO - The Economic Times
##METHOD: article 1


PTI NEW DELHI: Regretting the problem of call drops in  India , British telecom giant Vodafone today said the issue is related to operational conditions in the country on which the government is working "positively". 
 
  "I am really sorry about the fact that there are (call) drops in India at the level where we would not like them to be. It's linked to amount of spectrum that we have, it's linked to the ease of getting permits, right of ways. We are working positively with DoT," Vodafone Group CEO Vittorio Colao told reporters here. 
 
  He emphasised that the problem is not related to  investments  as Vodafone is committed to investing but there are operational issues like permissions to install mobile towers. 
 
  "It is not a problem of money, but problem of operating conditions. If we have more spectrum, then we also need to build many more sites. It's vicious cycle -- more sites, more issues, more bureaucratic administrative problems, more drops. If you can break this, I think India will get the same service as  the rest ," Colao said. 
 
  Vodafone, he said, remains the biggest investor in the country and will continue its capital  expenditure  to the tune of Rs 8,000-8,500 crore annually in the country. 
 
  "Thanks to competition, the price of technology is coming down every year. So, physically, more things are going on the ground at same investments," Colao said. 
 
  He termed India as one of the five big pillars of Vodafone in the world. 
 
  Vodafone is also working with the government for Digital India and financial inclusion programmes. 
 
  "I was in Gujarat around January-February when the Prime Minister elaborated his vision for Digital India... I would say it is a good start," Colao said. 
 
  He saw spectrum sharing and trading as a positive that will help telecom operators in providing efficient services. 
 
  Asked on Vodafone's stand on  Net neutrality , Colao said there should be no discrimination in rules among same kind of service albeit telecom operators should be allowed to segment Internet services. 
 
  "Net Neutrality should be about non-discrimination. I should not discriminate among same type of services... but segmentation should be allowed," Colao said. 
 Read More News on India investments Expenditure Net neutrality the rest (Catch all the  Business News ,  Breaking News  Events and  Latest News  Updates on  The Economic Times .) Download  The Economic Times News App  to get Daily Market Updates & Live Business News. ETPrime stories of the day Deals Conquering outpatient care: can Thyrocare help PharmEasy cement its top position in digital health? 13 mins read Board Matters How corporate-governance icon Omkar Goswami got sucked into a CBI case on CG Power’s fund diversion 16 mins read Logistics India’s top office landlord Blackstone wants to rule warehousing. Needed: some development risks. 11 mins read Subscribe to  ETPrime