##LINK: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20140617005736/en/Oregan-Reports-Record-2013-Revenue
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: Oregan Reports Record 2013 Revenue | Business Wire
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 
 Oregan Reports Record 2013 Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 Consistent growth in revenue is driven by Oregan’s Hybrid Pay TV 
      system integration services and technology licensing, powering the 
      evolution to online content distribution. 
 
 
 Key Results for Financial Year 2013 
 
 
 
        Middleware licensing and professional services revenues grew 4.6%;
       
 
        Profit after tax increased 50%;
       
 
        The company carried out further expansion into the Americas, by 
        establishing a sales and customer account management base in Mexico 
        City;
       
 
        Investment in R&D and core product development reached £25 Million.
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 June 17, 2014 05:57 AM Eastern Daylight Time 
 
 
 
 LONDON--( BUSINESS WIRE )--Oregan Networks, a leading supplier of next-generation Pay TV solutions 
      for Multiple Service Operators (MSOs), has delivered a record 2013 
      revenue, as it continued to invest into future growth through the 
      evolution of its product, methodology and market presence.
     
 
      By the end of 2013, subscriptions to British Telecom’s internet 
      television service powered by Oregan’s software, surpassed 0.5 Million 
      subscribers, marking Oregan’s largest telecoms operator deployment in 
      Europe to date.
     
 
      Mark Perry, Chief Executive Officer of Oregan Networks said, ‘The 
      company's Digital TV solutions are well proven in complex hybrid 
      broadcast and IPTV deployments within the tier-1 Pay TV operator market, 
      making Oregan a trusted provider for global operators seeking mature, 
      flexible and economical solutions.
     
 
      The ramp-up in revenues in year 2013, despite slower than expected 
      economic growth in Oregan’s core markets, was driven by revenues from 
      Pay TV subscription licences and recurring platform evolution services 
      to MSO customers, demonstrating the high value of company’s core 
      engineering competences.
     
 
      Based on the strength of our software portfolio, increased velocity of 
      new product roll-out methods, and the global context of growing 
      investment of telecom and satellite operators in the build-out of next 
      generation video delivery networks and systems, we expect to continue 
      delivering high performance in the year 2014.’
     
 
      The company’s substantial investment in the evolution of its hybrid 
      middleware platform that combines secure internet streaming capabilities 
      with cable, satellite and terrestrial television has led to a successful 
      launch of its products in key markets.
     
 
      A full end-to-end product launch service package encompassing a 
      pre-integrated 3D user experience, an enabling media delivery software 
      framework and STB firmware diagnostics and remote management system - is 
      now offered to multi-regional operators who wish to increase the speed 
      of their innovation cycle whilst minimising operational costs.
     
 
 About Oregan Networks 
 
 
      Oregan Networks provides a lightweight embedded middleware platform for 
      delivery of Digital TV services to hybrid broadcast receivers.
     
 
      Oregan’s platform encapsulates a blueprint combination of open Internet 
      standards with carrier-grade networking, security and quality of service 
      monitoring modules.
     
 
      Oregan powers millions of devices deployed by leading telecoms and 
      retail brands, including British Telecom, Telefonica, CAT Telecom, NTT, 
      Batelco, Sony, Philips and Sharp.
     
 
      Oregan's headquarters and primary R&D centre are located in London UK, 
      with branch offices in Singapore, Mexico, Argentina and Taiwan. More 
      information is available at  www.oregan.net .
     
 
      ###
     
 
      Trademark Notice - Oregan Networks, Oregan Media Browser and Onyx are 
      trademarks of Oregan Networks Ltd. All other trademarks or registered 
      trademarks are the property of their respective holders.
     
 
 
 
 
 Contacts 
 
      Oregan Networks Milya Timergaleyeva Tel: 02088460990, ext 220 VP 
      Market Strategy marketing@oregan.net 
 
 
 
 
