##LINK: https://cogentco.com/network/cogent-fiber-lit-buildings
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Cogent Fiber Lit Buildings
##METHOD: paragraphs

Is your office in a Cogent Fiber-Lit Building? Only the largest and most prestigious commercial buildings in the United States and Canada are selected for direct connection to Cogent's fiber-optic network, consistently ranked as one of the top 5 networks in the world. A typical Cogent Fiber-Lit Building is a Class A or B office building with more than 500,000 square feet, located in the central business district of a major metropolitan market.
When your office is in a building directly connected to Cogent fiber, you can enjoy dedicated, high-speed Internet access offered at extremely low prices. In addition to the substantial cost savings, you also enjoy rapid service installation directly to your suite--typically in 17 business days or less. That's three times faster than what traditional, copper-based telephone companies can offer.
A Cogent fiber connection gives your company a competitive advantage. Find out if you're in a Cogent Fiber-Lit Building by using our Service Locations page. 
Not in a Cogent Fiber-Lit Building? Don't worry - you can still connect to the Cogent Network in over 3 million other service locations in North America. This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. to learn more.
  
Are you the property manager in a Cogent-Fiber Lit Building? Promoting Cogent service as a tenant amenity can only increase the value of your office space. Cogent is pleased to assist you. We provide the following services to property managers in Cogent Fiber-Lit buildings:
This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.today for more information or to schedule any of the above activities in your buildings. Please use "Property Manager" as the subject line of your email.
Acceptable Use Policy - Legal Matters - Privacy Policy - CCPA - GDPR - Contact Cogent Webmaster - Net Neutrality - Statement Concerning Modern Slavery Act (UK)
  
 All trademarks, tradenames and service names mentioned and/or used belong to their respective owners.
Switch Site Language
 