##LINK: https://variety.com/2015/biz/news/netflix-dish-tell-court-uphold-fcc-net-neutrality-action-1201503796/
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Netflix, Dish Urge FCC's Net Neutrality Action to Be Upheld - Variety
##METHOD: article 21



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Home 
 
 
 
	Biz 
 
 
 
	News 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	May 22, 2015 12:16pm PT
 
 
 
 

	
		Netflix, Dish Urge Court to Uphold FCC’s Net Neutrality Action
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								By  
	Ted Johnson 
 
 
 Plus Icon 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
		
					Ted Johnson		
			 
 
 Senior Editor 
 
 
	@tedstew 
 
 
 Latest 
 
 
	Sumner Redstone: A Lawyer Who Loved to Litigate 
 
	11 months ago
 
 
 
 
	Stars Show Support for Pete Buttigieg at Gwyneth Paltrow Event 
 
	2 years ago
 
 
 
 
	Pete Buttigieg Makes Fundraising Blitz in Series of Hollywood-Centric Events 
 
	2 years ago
 
 
 
 
 
	See All 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Netflix  and  Dish Network  are among the almost two dozen companies and public interest groups urging a federal appellate court to deny an effort to halt a central component of the FCC’s  net neutrality  rules before they go into effect on June 12. 
 Cogent Communications, COMPTEL, Level 3 Communications, Tumblr, Vimeo, Union Square Ventures, Etsy and Kickstarter also are among the entities that filed a motion with the D.C. Circuit in support of the new rules and the FCC’s move to reclassify the Internet as a Title II telecommunications service. 
 Major trade associations representing the cable and telecom industry are seeking a stay to prevent the FCC from reclassifying the Internet, which they say will bring outdated and onerous regulation on a thriving and growing industry. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The reclassification is a regulatory maneuver that supporters say is needed to give the FCC a firm legal footing to impose robust net neutrality rules, including ones that prevent Internet service providers from blocking or throttling content or from selling speedier access to their subscribers. The FCC, led by chairman Tom Wheeler, voted 3-2 in February in favor of reclassification and the net neutrality rules. 
 
 In their brief to the D.C. Circuit, supporters of the FCC action contend that ISPs have created an “artificial emergency” over the enforcement of the rules, even though companies like Comcast have said in earnings calls that the reclassification won’t affect the way they do business. 
 The supporters also challenge ISPs’ claims that the Title II reclassification creates a “general conduct” standard that is too vague. 
 Without the general conduct standard, “ISPs would have virtual carte blanche to circumvent the bright-line prohibitions through techniques such as degrading their connections to the Internet to impede the flow of Internet content, and using discriminatory data caps to favor an ISP’s affiliated services over those of rivals.” 
 Also signing on to the supporters’ brief were public interest groups like Color of Change, Public Knowledge, Free Press, Demand Progress and the Center for Democracy and Technology. 
 “A stay would allow ISPs with this gatekeeper power to continue harming consumers and edge providers through service degradation,” the supporters wrote in their brief. 
 
 
		optional screen reader	 
 
 Read More About: 
 
 
 
	Dish Network, 
 
 
 
	Net Neutrality, 
 
 
 
	Netflix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
