##LINK: https://www.bartleby.com/essay/Net-Neutrality-PKG8A8RSZL4Q
##KEYWORDS: net neutrality
##TITLE: Net Neutrality - 2945 Words | Bartleby
##METHOD: paragraphs

Net Neutrality
SubbaReddy Alla
Wilmington University
 
List of Contents
Introduction………………………………………………………………………………..3
What do we know about Net Neutrality?.……………………...………………………….3
Significance of Net Neutrality and issues related to it…………………………………….4
Little awareness on Net Neutrality………………………………………………………...5
Net Neutrality today………………………………………………………………………..6
SOPA & PIPA vs Net Neutrality…………………………………………………………..7
Campaigning on Net Neutrality……..……………………………………………………..7
Conclusion…………………………………………………………………………………8
In addition advocates of Net Neutrality theorize that Internet Service Providers with particular political leanings may use this ruling to stagnate or even censor blog posts, articles, information, etc. that are at odds with that ISPs distinct political beliefs and activities. The Huffington Post published statements by a  proponent of Net Neutrality, Sarah Kendzior, stating “The threat to net neutrality highlights the reliance on social media and an independent
Net Neutrality
	Net neutrality is the principle that supports free speech on the internet and allows us our right to freely communicate online (Singel, 2017). Net neutrality restricts major internet service providers, such as AT&T and CenturyLink, from discriminating upon certain online data because of content. Without net neutrality, these internet service providers would have the power to block or decrease the speed of specific internet content (Reardon, 2015). The providers would also be capable
Network neutrality has been debated for years now. Questions have risen such as “Should internet users communicate online freely?” and  “Should internet provide unbiased information to users?” The answer to these questions is yes. I agree with Julius Genachowski in his speech “Preserving a Free and Open Internet: A Platform Innovation, Opportunity, and Prosperity” that net neutrality, or open internet, provides many valuable benefits for the internet community and for our society as a whole.

History
27 November 2016
Net Neutrality: What is it and what does it mean to me?
At the 2016 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas earlier this year, FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler told his audience, “John Oliver took the ultimate arcane issue, Title II, and made it something that got people interested. And that’s good.” (Macri, Guiseppe)  Mr. Wheeler was referring to a segment by John Oliver, comedian, political satirist which aired June 2014 in which Mr. Oliver cleverly explains Net Neutrality and why it is important
is the central concern of net neutrality. Consumers, competition and network owners would benefit directly from the regulation of network neutrality because it would provide a positive impact to those parties as well as provide equality.
CONSUMERS
The Internet came to be because of the user. Without the user, there is no World Wide Web. It is a set of links and words all created by a group of users, a forum or a community (Weinberger 96). The concept of net neutrality is
1.  Gross, Grant.  “House Rejects ‘Net neutrality’, Passes Telecom Reform Bill”  Network World  23.23 (2006): 10.


AUTHOR	Grant Gross.
DATE	June 12
YEAR	2006
PUBLICATION	Network World
LOCATION	Framingham, MA
PUBLISHER	Network World Inc.
VOLUME	23
ISSUE	23
PAGE NUMBERS	10
LINK	---

The House of Representatives has defeated a provision to require U.S. broadband providers to offer the same speed of service to competitors that's available to partners, a major defeat to a coalition of online
One of the greatest factors threatening the Internet today is the attempt to dismantle net neutrality. Net neutrality is the idea of an open Internet, one on which people can freely communicate online; some Internet service providers, however, want the right to block or discriminate against any applications or content from which said companies gain no profit. If net neutrality is destroyed, then private corporations have free reign in throttling the sharing of information and of services for their
What is net neutrality you may ask? Well net neutrality or open internet is legal content and/or applications that internet service providers give you on an equal basis. They cannot have any favorite websites and block others.In my opinion in favor net neutrality. It makes sure every web site is treated equally. This goes for all video,audio,etc. in my future I want to be a entrepreneur and net neutrality helps people get access to broadband networks without any problems! Big companies like Apple
Net neutrality has become a huge topic in today’s society full of internet users, however nobody really knows whether it should pass or not. America is a capitalist country and supports free-market expansion and competition, however net neutrality is the exact opposite. Net neutrality has communistic views in which every website gets equal treatment and equal internet speed. As ABC states “Net neutrality is the principle that ISPs treat all content equally and not give preference to some digital
Bartleby.com
Bartleby.com