##LINK: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/fccs-open-internet-order-sets-the-stage-for-continued-growth-of-the-internet-300049956.html
##KEYWORDS: open Internet
##TITLE: FCC's Open Internet Order Sets the Stage for Continued Growth of the Internet
##METHOD: article 1



 
 
 
 FCC's Open Internet Order Sets the Stage for Continued Growth of the Internet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 News provided by 
 
 Cogent Communications Holdings, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 Mar 12, 2015, 04:13 ET 
 
 
 
 Share this article 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this article 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON ,  March 12, 2015  /PRNewswire/ -- The FCC's Open Internet Order is thoughtful, minimalist regulation to ensure that consumers have broadband Internet service that meets their expectations and needs.  The Commission prohibited blocking, throttling, and discrimination that inhibit competition and the unfettered use of the Internet by Americans to access content of their choice.  It did not regulate the Internet; it prohibited abusive practices of mass market ISPs.  The Commission wisely chose to use its regulatory power only where needed to correct abuse – in the last mile connection to consumers and interconnection among networks – and refrained from the application of burdensome rules from the telephone era.  That it was able to selectively apply its regulatory authority only to the extent necessary at this time is a tribute to the foresight of the Congressional drafters of the 1996 Communications Act who gave the FCC that flexibility. 
 The Commission's order sets the stage for continued growth of the Internet as a tool for the benefit of all Americans.  Cogent looks forward to being part of that growth and working with the Commission to ensure that the full Internet and the choice it represents is available to every broadband Internet customer. 
 About Cogent Communications Cogent Communications (NASDAQ:  CCOI ) is a multinational, Tier 1 facilities-based ISP, consistently ranked as one of the top five Internet backbone networks in the world.  Cogent specializes in providing businesses with high speed Internet access, Ethernet transport and colocation services.  Cogent's facilities-based, all-optical IP network provides services in 190 markets globally. 
 Since its inception, Cogent has unleashed the benefits of IP technology, building one of the largest and highest capacity IP networks in the world.  This network enables Cogent to offer large bandwidth connections at highly competitive prices.  Cogent also offers superior customer support by virtue of its end-to-end control of service delivery and network monitoring. 
 Cogent Communications is headquartered at 1015 31st Street, NW,  Washington, D.C.  20007. For more information, visit  www.cogentco.com . Cogent Communications can be reached in  the United States  at (202) 295-4200 or via email at  [email protected] . 
 Information in this release may involve expectations, beliefs, plans, intentions or strategies regarding the future.  These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.  All forward-looking statements included in this release are based upon information available to Cogent Communications Holdings, Inc. as of the date of the release, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statement.  The statements in this release are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.  Numerous factors could cause or contribute to such differences.  Some of the factors and risks associated with our business are discussed in Cogent's registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its other reports filed from time to time with the SEC. 
 Logo -  http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20020204/DCM032LOGO 
 SOURCE Cogent Communications Holdings, Inc. 
  Related Links 
   http://www.cogentco.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 × 
 Modal title 
 
 
 
 
